1. Podkreślić naukowy charakter wyjazdu - rezultat tej kwerendy po co jest odnosząc się do blue economy COST. Program naukowy
2. Letter of support do Kowalewski 
3. Mail do TU Delft z prośbą o zgodę na przyjazd 
4. Podkreślić że to jest po to że będzie pisane WG3 poparcie w zespole który przygotowuje temat książki (zwierzęta).

Strupp - Hamburg
Hein - Delft

PortcityFutures kierownik programu - Tadas. ITC Conference collete.

Zapoznamy co robimy 
W całości fundowane przez Cost action 

E-cost Konto 
Application 

Delft dojazd pociągiem 

Wniosek Tadas.

koreascience.kr

City Festival in Tainan during the Colonial Period: Focusing on the Restoration of Mazu

Haruhiko Sunagawa

Journal of East-Asian Urban History 2 (2), 235-271, 2020

Tainan was the capital of Taiwan and was the largest commercial city in Taiwan with a significant number of ports. However, after the end of the Qing era, the functions of the capital and major ports were shifted to Taipei and Kaohsiung, thus leading Tainan to lose its position. This article focuses on festivals in the city. The Qing dynasty administrative agency set up a local government that grouped multiple villages based on the religious beliefs which were closely related to the concept of the urban space as the primary temple. Mazu is an object of worship that attracted the attention of city residents from the Taisho era to the colonial era. At the Mazu temple in Tainan, which has acquired a new mystery, a Mazu festival was conducted with Mazu patrols. This festival was conducted from 1915 to 1937, when it was canceled due to the temple reorganization movement. At the festival, multiple participating groups used to compete to earn the luxury of running the pavilions. The procession ran through the north side of the city on the first day and the south side of the city on the second day. During this festival, in addition to going around the villages of the old city, a touring route was planned for the procession to pass through major landmarks related to the colonial administration and the Ginza-dori Shopping Street, which was newly created during the Taisho era. Therefore, this procession was unique because it ensured that people could explore the old and new streets that were transformed through urban remodeling during the colonial period. Moreover, passing through the licensed quarters called Shin-machi, which was relocated through urban remodeling by the administrative agency, allowed people to visualize the urban structure of colonial Taiwan. Tainan city was renewed through remodeling during the colonial period, thus leading to the formation of a new commercial area. The spirit of the people in Tainan city can be gauged based on the fact that the festival was financially and religiously supported by the merchants who promoted it. The restoration of Mazu during the colonial period indicates the restoration of urban commerce in Tainan, which had fallen from its position as the primary port city in Taiwan since the end of the Qing period. Therefore, it can be considered to represent the restoration of the city.

Wyświetl na koreascience.kr

[PDF] koreascience.kr

Powiązane artykuły

Wszystkie wersje 2

pure.ulster.ac.uk

Blue Urbanism: Lessons from the Hamburg’s waterfront cruise days festival

Carlos Balsas

UK and Ireland Occupational and Environmental Epidemiology conference 2023 Dublin, 2023

Background: Written accounts of cultural festivals often deal with the various activities that comprise those types of events. There is a paucity of analyses discussing how festivals encourage the status quo of consumption practices, while conjuring their hidden costs on society as a whole.

Objectives: This paper reflects on how the Hamburg Cruise Days Festival in September 2019 attempted to perpetuate the injustices of the cruising industry. The research answers the following question: What would it take to help change the current “cobalt” colour promoted by the organizers of the Hamburg’s Waterfront Cruise Days Festival to a “true blue,” a symbol of the cleanest sky and harbour waters in Germany, and the best example of sustainable Blue Urbanism in Europe?

Methods: The research methods comprised in loco field work participant observation in the tradition of participatory action research. Marcuse’s three-part approach to wicked problems (ie,“Expose, Propose, and Politicize”) was utilized to discuss the case study’s policy implications.

Results: It is argued that, from a governance perspective, festival organizers could be required to disclaim, in the fashion of “truth in advertising,” the ecological impacts and sponsors’ progress toward reaching existing environmental standards to eradicate costly social and environmental injustices. The results are presented according to three types of measures:(i) Socio-ecological performance;(ii) The Solomonic approach to justice; and (iii) A Port of Call Sister Cities network.

Conclusions: The on the ground “shoe-leather” participatory action research work proved that festival goers walked away from the event without an understanding of the true impacts of the cruise industry on the host city and on stopping port cities during recurrent cruise visits as the highly choreographed festival was mostly aimed at marketing entertainment and touristic activities to visitors. The recommendations can increase our individual awareness of the invaluable richness of our marine environment before it is exhausted irreplaceably.

Why choose Poland cruises

When you think of cruisable countries Poland doesn’t exactly spring first to mind, but the country actually has one of the most fascinating cruise ports in Northern Europe. Perfectly positioned on the Baltic coast, Poland is a favourite on Baltics itineraries, so make sure to choose a sailing that stops at historic Gdansk. Looking to cruise to Poland from UK? Industry heavyweights like Royal Caribbean, MSC Cruises, NCL and Princess Cruises sail to Poland, along with more luxurious, smaller-ship cruise lines like Viking, Azamara, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and Windstar.

https://blueseacruises.co.uk/cruise-detail/?cruise_id=MSCPO20250907WARWAR&utm_source=World_of_Cruising&utm_medium=Search

Overview

MSC Poesia is an innovative cruise ship with an elegant style that brings traditional craftsmanship to creative designs. Step aboard and you’ll enter a refined world of comfort. Whether your reason for being on board is a family holiday, a luxury treat or a romantic escape, MSC Poesia is a ship that offers a truly inspiring cruise experience.

Unique Ship Features

Your cruise experience is at the centre of everything we do. To help make your holiday with us truly memorable, we give you the chance to tailor your experience to your needs and desires. For example, you can either leave the choice of cabin to us and benefit from the best rates available, or choose your own ideal cabin and location, while enjoying extra flexibility and additional benefits to make your cruise even more special.

Bella Experience

Fantastica Experience

Aurea Experience

Msc Poesia Cruise Itinerary 🛳 
11 days Baltic Sea cruise from 12 to 23 September 2024

Departure Warnemunde 
Day 1 Gdansk 
Day 2 Klaipeda
Day 3 Riga
Day 4 Tallin
Day,5 Riga 
Day 6 Helsinki
Day 7 8 Stokholm 
Day 9 Navigation
Day 10 Copenhagen 
Day 11 Warnemunde 

Msc Poesia, a Musica-class ship, entered service in April 2008. 

The MSC Poesia offers At 293.80 length the ship can accommodate 2,550 passengers (with double occupancy).

 Admire the spectacular waterfall in the foyer of MSC Poesia and enjoy a soothing break in the Zen Garden. 

The public areas are modern, colorful and pompous.

 The staterooms are more classic, but also decorated with colorful accents.

 Family cruises are particularly popular with the MSC Poesia. 

#mscpoesia #cruise  #msccruises #mscarmonia #mscfantasia #mscdivina #mscpreziosa #mscsplendida #mscsinfonia #mscopera 
en
🎥 Msc friends

4 Tallin
Day,5 Riga

Seabourn Legend - główny rekwizyt i zarazem miejsce akcji w filmie "Speed 2: Cruise Control" - w Szczecinie... - 2014 rok

Takie wycieczkowce powinny być elementem stałej ekspozycji w tym miejscu. Zastanawiam się, czy wzorem innych miast statki pasażerskie są zwolnione z opłat portowych.

Z portu Świnoujście/PL opuszczają sekcje nowego japońskiego statku wycieczkowego ASUKA III

Z portu Świnoujście/PL opuszczają sekcje nowego japońskiego statku wycieczkowego ASUKA III

Zapraszamy na wyjątkowy Giermasz - Radio Szczecin o tematyce morskiej. W Szczecinie trwa finał regat The Tall Ships Races, więc podjęliśmy temat i wybraliśmy kilka starych gier o piractwie i przygodach na morzach i oceanach całego świata. W tej audycji przypomnimy takie tytuły jak Sid Meier’s Pirates!, Cruise for a Corpse, Sea Dogs i Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag. Na koniec Michał Król z Kacprem Narodzonkiem dyskutowali na temat piractwa... w świecie gier. Zapraszamy!

Prom Cruise Smeralda z Grimaldi lines płynie do Malmö z prawdopodobnym celem przemianowania na Finnlines. Chodzą pogłoski że prom ma pływać na nowej trasie do Polski. 
Czy ktoś coś wie na ten temat? Promy miały cumowac na jakimś nowym terminalu cargo za terminalem pasażerskim.

Z portu w Świnoujściu opuszczają klocki do nowego statku wycieczkowego Disneya. Treasure 

RIVER CRUISE ex OLIVKA 

W 2018 roku w Szczecinie  była eksploatowana  piękna drewniana „pasażerka” OLIVKA.
Z tego, co powiedział mi mój kolega  Tomek Bliski  pomysł armatora nie wypalił i eksploatacja jednostki nie była opłacalna. Statek po jakimś czasie przeniesiono do Gdańska, ale szczegółów tych przenosin nie znam.   
OLIVKA pod zmienioną nazwą RIVER CRUISE  drugi sezon pływa po Motławie i   z powodzeniem wozi pasażerów. foto Tomasz Bliski 2018 i Andrzej Patro 2021.

Seabourn Legend - główny rekwizyt i zarazem miejsce akcji w filmie "Speed 2: Cruise Control" - w Szczecinie...

Lodołamacz Stettin wita się z Królową ;)

...parowiec zbudowany był w Szczecinie/Stettinie, obecnie stanowi atrakcję portu w Hamburgu. 

https://youtu.be/6qVDZ49uTFk

Powiązane: https://www.facebook.com/groups/SzczecinZnany/permalink/608478249788532/

Silver Cloud cruise ship in Szczecin

"The environmental costs of cruising

Cruise ship visitors are known to negatively impact Marine World Heritage sites. While most sites regulate ballast water and wastewater discharge, there are concerns about ship air emissions and wildlife interactions.

Cruise ship journeys along Canada’s west coast, for example, are leaving behind a trail of toxic waste. A study by environmental organization Friends of the Earth concluded that a cruise tourist generates eight times more carbon emissions per day than a land tourist in Seattle.

Also, a rise in expedition cruising means more negative impacts (long-haul flights to farther ports, less destination management in fragile ecosystems, last-chance tourism) and a rise in carbon dioxide emissions.

Toxic air pollutants from cruise ships around ports are higher than pre-pandemic levels, leaving Europe’s port cities “choking on air pollution.” Last year, Europe’s 218 cruise ships emitted as much sulphur oxides as one billion cars — a high number, considering the introduction of the International Maritime Organization’s sulphur cap in 2020."

https://www.facebook.com/share/p/jQsay3rMM3mbMwM5/

🛳 How does a CRUISE differ from a classic holiday?
 Compared to the classic ways to travel, a cruise offers many other #advantages!!!

 ✅ Whether you want an exotic vacation or a cultural expedition, a cruise will take you through your favorite destinations, without worrying about transportation, finding accommodation or places to eat.

 ✅ You can visit up to 5-6 cities in a single week of cruise, all the while having at your disposal all the facilities on the ship you are traveling with.

 ✅ As a rule, ships sail at night and during the day they are stationed in one port city at a time.

 ✅ You can disembark at any time, as long as the ship is docked at the shore, and you can always return before its departure to the next destination (you can return to the ship to have a meal, to rest, etc.);

 ✅ The cruise is an experience that transforms a simple trip into a real luxury vacation, not only thanks to the multiple destinations but also thanks to the activities spent on board, as well as the hospitable staff, always present to meet your needs.

 🚘🌍 Have you ever experienced those moments of a normal trip, when different problems appear even during the vacation?
    There are many tourists who, out of a desire to include as much as possible in one vacation, try to organize on their own, moving with their personal car from one place to another, from one city to another, from one hotel to another.  another, from one restaurant to another, etc.  ...
  😔 Well... when do you have time and energy to relax?

 🥰🛳❤️ Well, all these problems disappear on a cruise❗️
 Everything is organized with mathematical precision, so that you always have something to do, always something to relax, delight or surprise you, and last but not least, to charge you with energy!!!

 🌎 Take your soul on vacation❗️… WHY❓Because, from time to time, it needs peace!

 https://savetaciucia.inteletravel.uk

 #𝑅𝑜𝑦𝑎𝑙𝐶𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑏𝑏𝑒𝑎𝑛
 #𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑙𝑊𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑅𝑜𝑥𝑖
 #𝑆𝑒𝑎𝐿𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠

Have you considered a Northern Europe cruise? 🚢 There are some fabulous itineraries out there.

Check out this 14 night cruise with Viking. Cruise from Stockholm to Bergen and see Estonia, Poland, Germany, Denmark and Norway. 

Sail historic waters and discover more of Scandinavia with overnights in Stockholm, Oslo and scenic Bergen. See charming Ålborg and Gdańsk, and visit the grand cities of Berlin and Copenhagen. Witness breathtaking scenery from your ship as she glides through majestic Norwegian fjords in the legendary homelands of the Vikings.

Your cruise with Viking includes:
🚢One complimentary shore excursion in every port of call
🚢Free Wi-Fi (connection speed may vary)
Beer, wine & soft drinks with onboard lunch & dinner
🚢24-hour specialty coffees, teas  & bottled water
Port taxes & fees
🚢Visits to UNESCO Sites
🚢Enrichment lectures & Destination Performances
🚢Complimentary access to The Nordic Spa & Fitness Center.
🚢Alternative restaurant dining at no extra charge
🚢24-hour room service

Contact me at https://linktr.ee/littleluxheather for
 more information and quotes on this itinerary and Viking’s other itineraries around the globe! 🌎

https://www.facebook.com/share/p/9KURDpJbygnAr4Me/

🌊⚓ Port vs. Sea Days: Which Cruise is Right for You? 🌊⚓

Hey, cruise lovers! 🌟 Ready to set sail but not sure which cruise itinerary is the perfect fit? Let’s break it down for you! 🛳️
Port-Heavy Itineraries: Adventure Awaits! 🗺️✨ If you're the kind of traveller who loves exploring new destinations, soaking in local cultures, and ticking off your bucket list, then a port-heavy itinerary is your dream come true! These cruises stop at multiple ports, giving you more opportunities to discover new places, enjoy unique excursions, and dive into different adventures every day. From ancient ruins to bustling city markets, every port is a new story waiting to unfold. 🌍

Sea Days: Ultimate Relaxation Mode 🌞🌴 Prefer to kick back and unwind? Cruises with more sea days are perfect for you! These itineraries offer the ideal balance of relaxation and adventure. Sea days are your chance to enjoy all the amazing amenities on board – think spa days, lounging by the pool, indulging in gourmet dining, and catching breathtaking ocean views. It's all about slowing down and soaking up the serenity of the open sea. 🛁🍹

Mix It Up: Best of Both Worlds 🌐⚖️ Can't decide? No problem! Some itineraries offer a mix of port and sea days, so you can have the best of both worlds. Spend a few days exploring vibrant cities and beautiful beaches, then take a break to relax on board. It's the perfect way to enjoy a little bit of everything without feeling rushed. 🚢🏖️

Our Top Tip: Itinerary First, Ship Second! 🗓️🔍 When choosing your cruise, we always recommend starting with the itinerary. Look at the destinations and the balance of port and sea days to find what excites you the most. Once you’ve picked your dream route, then check out the ships and their amenities to make sure they match your vacation style. Remember, the journey is just as important as the destination! 🌟

Whether you're an explorer at heart or a laid-back lounger, there's a cruise out there that's perfect for you. Need help planning? We're here to guide you every step of the way! 

Drop us a message or comment CRUISE below for more information – let's make your cruise dreams come true! 🌴🌊💙

#CruiseLife #TravelAgency #PortDays #SeaDays #VacationMode #CruiseTips #ExploreTheWorld #RelaxAndUnwind #CruiseVacation #TravelInspiration #CruiseItinerary

https://www.facebook.com/share/p/spKDfbtD5i7KSd7e/

🛳️ Thinking about taking a cruise vacation? 
Here are some amazing benefits of cruising:

1. **All-inclusive Experience**: From accommodations to meals and entertainment, many cruises offer all-inclusive packages, making budgeting a breeze.

2. **Multiple Destinations, One Trip**: Unpack once and wake up to a new destination each day, exploring multiple cities or islands without the hassle of constant packing and unpacking.

3. **Endless Activities**: From onboard pools and waterslides to Broadway-style shows and cooking classes, cruises offer a plethora of activities for all ages and interests.

4. **Culinary Delights**: Indulge in gourmet dining experiences featuring a variety of cuisines, with options ranging from casual buffets to fine dining restaurants.

5. **Unbeatable Views**: Enjoy stunning ocean vistas and picturesque sunsets from the comfort of your cruise ship, offering unparalleled views that change daily.

6. **Relaxation and Wellness**: Pamper yourself with spa treatments, yoga classes, and tranquil spaces designed for relaxation, providing the ultimate escape from everyday stress.

7. **Family-Friendly Fun**: With dedicated kids' clubs, teen activities, and family-friendly entertainment, cruises are perfect for families seeking quality time together.

8. **Adventure and Excursions**: Embark on exciting shore excursions, from snorkeling in tropical waters to exploring ancient ruins, creating unforgettable memories at each port of call.

Ready to set sail? Book your cruise adventure today and experience the wonders of the world from the comfort of a luxurious ship! #CruiseLife #TravelGoals #cruisevacation #cruisetips

Have you considered a Northern Europe cruise? There are some fabulous itineraries out there. Check out this 14 night cruise with Viking. Cruise from Stockholm to Bergen and see Estonia, Poland, Germany, Denmark and Norway. 

Sail historic waters and discover more of Scandinavia with overnights in Stockholm, Oslo and scenic Bergen. See charming Ålborg and Gdańsk, and visit the grand cities of Berlin and Copenhagen. Witness breathtaking scenery from your ship as she glides through majestic Norwegian fjords in the legendary homelands of the Vikings.

Your cruise with Viking includes:
🚢One complimentary shore excursion in every port of call
🚢Free Wi-Fi (connection speed may vary)
Beer, wine & soft drinks with onboard lunch & dinner
🚢24-hour specialty coffees, teas  & bottled water
Port taxes & fees
🚢Visits to UNESCO Sites
🚢Enrichment lectures & Destination Performances
🚢Complimentary access to The Nordic Spa & Fitness Center.
🚢Alternative restaurant dining at no extra charge
🚢24-hour room service

Contact me for more information and quotes on this itinerary and Viking’s other itineraries around the globe!
https://linktr.ee/lltlaura

#vikingcruises #northerneuropecruise #luxurycruise #littleluxuriestravelbylaura #littleluxuriestravel

Today we’re celebrating #WorldTourismDay and its contribution to the world economy. The cruise industry is a vital artery for world economies and a key sector of tourism. We contribute $150 billion to the world’s economy, and support 1.2 million jobs globally. Across Europe and the UK around 435,000 jobs are supported through our industry.

Cruise tourism also provides real economic opportunities for communities. Each cruise guest spends an average of €660 in port cities during a typical seven-day cruise, and 60% of tourists return to a destination they first visited on a cruise ship creating a further boost to communities long after the ship has sailed.  #WeAreCruise

 The large cruise ships are like floating cities on the ocean and offer top-notch entertainment for the entire family. In fact, the newer ships are so large that they have an entire amusement park on board! So while you sail from one exotic destination to another on your cruise itinerary, you can be rest assured of a fantastic time onboard the ship – in fact so much so, that you will be in two minds whether to even get off the ship when you reach a new port of call. Here is our top selection of amusement park experiences onboard some of the world’s biggest ships:
 1st Slide: Go Karting track onboard NCL Bliss and Joy 
2nd Slide: Ultimate Sea Coaster Experience (called @BOLT) on Carnival Mardi Gras
3rd Slide: Bumper cars onboard many Royal Caribbean ships
4th Slide: Indoor Sky Diving (iFly) & surfing simulation onboard Quantum of the Seas
5th Slide: Outdoor laser tag onboard NCL Bliss and Encore
6th Slide: F1 Simulator Experience on MSC Meraviglia
7th Slide: Sky ride experience onboard Carnival Horizon 
 So which activity would you like to experience onboard these magnificent ships? Visit www.cruisebay.com for over 1000 cruise options.

co ZABRAĆ NA STSM DELFT ROTTERDAM 
- sztućce
- kubek na zupę
- talerze (zupa, duży, mały)
- górnej
- przedłużacz 
- ładowarka 
- suszarka
- mydło
- ręcznik papierowy
- kabel do net
- aspiryna z auta
- sudokrem
- kroksy klapki zielone
- komputer X 2
- książki 
- 

https://spidersweb.pl/2024/10/powstawanie-wody-w-skali-nano.html

Kup
- probiotyk
- ibuprofen zatoki
- kantor
- majtki i skarpetki
- chusteczki
- ręcznik papierowy
- kubek mug
- kurtka niebieska
- 3 X jeans
- 5 T shirt
- buty zimowe
- ręcznik duży
- pasta + szczoteczka + dezodorant + zapach
- leki
- 

- książki 
- walizki
- pranie 

www.cruisebay.com

The large cruise ships are like floating cities on the ocean and offer top-notch entertainment for the entire family. In fact, the newer ships are so large that they have an entire amusement park on board! So while you sail from one exotic destination to another on your cruise itinerary, you can be rest assured of a fantastic time onboard the ship – in fact so much so, that you will be in two minds whether to even get off the ship when you reach a new port of call. Here is our top selection of amusement park experiences onboard some of the world’s biggest ships:
 1st Slide: Go Karting track onboard NCL Bliss and Joy 
2nd Slide: Ultimate Sea Coaster Experience (called @BOLT) on Carnival Mardi Gras
3rd Slide: Bumper cars onboard many Royal Caribbean ships
4th Slide: Indoor Sky Diving (iFly) & surfing simulation onboard Quantum of the Seas
5th Slide: Outdoor laser tag onboard NCL Bliss and Encore
6th Slide: F1 Simulator Experience on MSC Meraviglia
7th Slide: Sky ride experience onboard Carnival Horizon 
 So which activity would you like to experience onboard these magnificent ships? Visit www.cruisebay.com for over 1000 cruise options.

September 14, 2024, me performing for an event put on by the group SEATTLE CRUISE CONTROL.  This group centers it's activities on educating people about the hazards created by the cruise ship industry such as air and water pollution, loss of fish habitat, sewage and public health issues, not to mention food waste.

https://www.facebook.com/share/p/fHezzD3x1Bt3haBe/

Cruise ship exhaust releases pollutants like sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and black carbon, contributing to poor air quality. These pollutants pose health hazards, including respiratory and cardiovascular problems, especially for those living near ports and coastal areas. Long-term exposure increases the risk of asthma, lung disease, and heart attacks.

https://www.facebook.com/share/v/roDKWgvY7anKh3eF/

Food Safety: Cruise ship shut down by Health Inspectors due to health hazards - Toronto, Canada.
Empress of Canada offers corporate boat cruises, boat rentals, and a variety of boating events for the Toronto area closed by Health Inspectors due to 2 crucial infractions:
1. Food premise maintained in manner permitting health hazard. Action: Summons and Health Hazard Order.
2. Fail to provide food premise with adequate potable water supply.
#DineSafe inspection report via https://www.toronto.ca/community-people/health-wellness-care/health-programs-advice/food-safety/dinesafe/#infraction_details/10371388/0

The Port of Seattle Police Department Marine Patrol and Dive Team is integral to keeping the Seattle waterfront secure for cruise passengers, vessels, and the community. In the depths of Elliott Bay 🤿, members of the POSPD Dive Team check for potential hazards or suspicious objects that could impact cruise ships or other vessels and gather evidence in the event of crimes on the water. Learn how the Marine Patrol and Dive teams assist POSPD and other federal and regional law enforcement agencies on and beneath the water → https://www.portseattle.org/blog/port-police-officer-patrols-new-depths

Allen Marine Tours has introduced a new geo-fencing technology aimed at reducing noise pollution from its tour vessels in sensitive areas throughout Southeast Alaska.

This technology, developed by Allen Marine Owner Jamey Cagle and Electronics and Parts Specialist Duane Cummings, will be implemented across the company’s entire fleet by next summer, following successful tests on three boats this year, according to a statement.

The technology automatically deactivates outdoor loudspeakers when vessels enter specific areas where noise pollution can impact local communities and wildlife.

These areas include Auke Bay and Shelter Island near Juneau, as well as Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve and Tracy Arm-Fords Terror Wilderness. The system also features a captain’s override for safety, ensuring it meets U.S. Coast Guard requirements.

“This is my home. It’s incredibly important to me and our family that we be the best neighbors we can be to all Alaska communities and that we protect our wildlife populations,” Cagle said. “I know how far loudspeaker announcements travel across open water and how disruptive that can be to both people and animals. This new technology allows us to cut that noise pollution without negatively impacting the experience for our guests.”

The introduction of this technology follows other recent efforts by Allen Marine Tours to reduce their environmental impact. Last year, the company voluntarily established no-wake and speed reduction zones around populated areas like Auke Bay and eliminated most of its “whale sighting guarantees” to reduce pressure on local waters.

Additionally, in response to the recent Mendenhall River flood, Allen Marine Tours, in partnership with the Central Council Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska, donated $17,000 from a benefit cruise to support flood victims.

Ocean Forecasts & BulletinsEspace premiumEspace projetsPersonal Space

English

Français (French)

Mercator Ocean Bulletin: Marine heatwave forecasts – July 27th 2024

Isabelle Michel

Marine Heatwave Bulletin

Mercator Ocean International (MOi) oceanographers examine marine heatwaves across the global ocean. They analyse a variety of datasets from observations (satellite sea surface temperature maps) to numerical model analyses (assimilating satellite and in situ observations) and derive marine heatwave forecasts for a 7 day period.[1]

 Forecasts for July 27th

Figure 1: Map of marine heatwave categories for July 27, 2024 forecast for the world ocean as a whole. GLO12 analysis. Source : Mercator Ocean International 

Europe Zone

 For the 27th of July, Mercator Ocean International (MOi) forecasts a decrease in spatial extent of the marine heatwave in the Mediterranean Sea with moderate and strong categories, locally severe. In the Norway Sea the marine heatwave become stronger in intensity with strong and severe category, locally extreme.

Global Ocean

Atlantic Ocean

 North Atlantic Ocean – MOi forecasts that the surface of the marine heatwave in the mid North Atlantic increases in intensity with the development of strong and locally severe categories. 

 North Tropical Atlantic Ocean – In the Tropical North Atlantic, the marine heatwave increases in spatial extent with strong categories gain in extent. In the Gulf of Mexico, the marine heatwave decreases in intensity and spatial extent.

 South Tropical Atlantic Ocean – In the Southern Tropical Atlantic, the marine heatwave stays stable. 

Southern Ocean

 The marine heatwave in the Southern Ocean, off the South African coast (between 30°W and 30°E) decreases in spatial extent.

Pacific Ocean 

 Tropical Pacific Ocean – In the Tropical Pacific, the marine heatwave decreases in spatial extent in the Western part, moderate and strong categories remain. On the Eastern side, the marine heat waves intensities and is now mostly of strong categories, locally severe and extreme. 

 North Pacific Ocean – In the North Pacific, between the coast of Japan and around 180°W, the marine heatwave decreases in spatial extent with mainly moderate and strong categories. Between the coasts of Canada and around 170°W, the marine heatwave almost disappears.  

 South-East Asian Seas – The marine heatwave present in the seas of Southeast Asia disappears. 

 South Pacific, to the east of New-Zealand – The marine heatwave decreases in spatial extent.  

Indian Ocean

 In the Indian Ocean, Mercator Ocean forecasts that the marine heatwave decreases in spatial extent, moderate and locally strong categories remain mainly in the center of the basin. 

 Weekly temperature anomalies 

Figure 2 : Weekly surface temperature anomaly map for the week of 20 to 27 July 2024. GLO12 forecast. Source : Mercator Ocean InternationalAtlantic OceanNorth
2°C to 3°CNorth Tropical
1°C to 2°CSouth Tropical
0°C to 1.5°CSouthern Ocean
0°C to 2°CPacific Ocean North
1°C to 3°CTropical
-1°C to 2°CSouth
1°C to 2.5°CSouth-East Asian Seas
0.5°C to 1°CIndian Ocean
0.5°C to 2°C

Consult our Daily Global Physical Bulletin for a 9-day forecast here.

What are marine heatwaves?

Marine heatwaves (MHW) are extreme rises in ocean temperature for an extended period of time. They can occur at different locations in the ocean, and their magnitude and frequency have increased over the last couple of decades, with harmful impacts on ecosystems, and human activities. According to the latest report released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR6 SYR), it is found with high confidence that in the near-term at 1.5°C global warming, the increasing frequency of marine heatwaves will increase risks of biodiversity loss in the oceans, including from mass mortality events.[2]

How are marine heatwaves calculated? 

A marine heatwave is a heat episode during which the temperature is significantly higher than a certain threshold for at least 5 consecutive days.

Figure adapted from Hobday et al. (2018)

The seasonally-varying threshold is defined on a daily basis according to a sufficiently long climatic period (in this case 1993-2016). So, for a given place and a given day, knowing all the surface temperatures observed over the last 30 years, a heatwave situation is defined as one where the temperature measured is within 10% of the maximum values observed (i.e. above the 90th quantile, see diagram), for at least 5 consecutive days.

The main characteristics of heatwaves are their duration and intensity. The intensity for a given day corresponds to the value in degrees above the 90th quantile (blue arrow), which can either be calculated as the cumulative intensity throughout the heatwave event, or the maximum intensity.

Heatwaves are categorised on the basis of their deviation from the mean temperature or anomaly (green arrow): a deviation of more than 2 times the difference between the 90th quantile and the mean corresponds to a heatwave in the strong category; a deviation of more than 3 times corresponds to a heatwave in the severe category; and a deviation of more than 4 times corresponds to a heatwave in the extreme category.

[1] Analysis of datasets: SST OSTIA (Copernicus Marine Service), OISST (NOAA), GLO12 (Copernicus Marine Service / Mercator Ocean International), PSY4 (Copernicus Marine Service / Mercator Ocean International), and GLO12 et PSY4 forecasts.

[2] IPCC AR6 SYR chapter 4.3 https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/syr/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_SYR_LongerReport.pdf

Rechercher

Search for:

Categories

Categories 

Select Category Events Marine Heatwave Bulletin News Non classé @en Ocean Temperature Bulletin presse Sea Ice Bulletin Spotted in the media 

Tags

altrimetry Antarctique Argo Climate Change CMEMS Connaissance de l’environnement océanique COP21 Copernicus copernicus marine Copernicus Marine Environment Copernicus Marine Service Decade Collaborative Centre digital ocean Digital Twin Ocean EUMETSAT European Space Solutions GEO Blue Planet GMMC GOOS IGO international ocean governance IOC-UNESCO jason-3 Jason-3 data Jean-Louis Etienne Météo France North-West Shelf Ocean Decade Ocean environment knowledge ocean governance ocean observation Ocean Observing System Ocean prediction Ocean State Report océan digital Oil Spill OSR partnership pollution S-100 satellite sea level Sentinel Sentinel-3A UN Ocean Decade

About us

In routine or in real time, on a global or regional scale, both on the surface and beneath it, Mercator Ocean describes, analyses and forecasts the state of the ocean by developing the "Mercator System" for ocean analysis and forecasting and maintaining it in an operational condition.

Mercator Ocean International is a non-profit organisation, in the process of becoming an intergovernmental organisation, providing ocean science-based services of general interest focused on the conservation and the sustainable use of the ocean and marine resources. It is owned by ten major players in the field of operational oceanography: CNR, CNRS, Ifremer, IRD, Météo-France, SHOM, CMCC, MetOffice, NERSC, and Puertos del Estado.

Latest MOi Tweets

Our #MercatorOcean experts have contributed to a paper "Using machine learning and Biogeochemical-Argo (BGC-Argo) f… https://t.co/x0e7LrPlYG

1 year ago

RT @edito_dto: 🆕Discover EDITO-Model Lab: https://t.co/CamGNOw97Z 💻🌎Together with EDITO-Infra, we are helping to build the EU… https://t.co/zl9YG4LC7M

1 year ago

D-1 🔔Last chance to register for our next #OceanPrediction meeting, to constitute the Regional Team for African Sea… https://t.co/XORCVUpgrr

1 year ago

Contact

2 avenue de l'Aérodrome de Montaudran, 31400 Toulouse France

communication@mercator-ocean.fr

Rejoignez-nous

Newsletter

Contact – Sitemap – Legal Notice – Privacy Policy

https://www.mercator-ocean.eu/en/mhw-bulletin/mercator-ocean-bulletin-marine-heatwave-forecasts-july-27-2024/?fbclid=IwY2xjawF93qpleHRuA2FlbQIxMQABHUX0LhmltK7UQDvXQwG80YePEbziIR_pQvinYy2ica3sbU2jeOvo-VyV_Q_aem_GUpFe9IWD0u9zQiPCWRBEA

The Copernicus Marine Service is the marine component of the Copernicus Programme of the European Union. It provides free, regular and systematic authoritative information on the state of the Blue (physical), White (sea ice) and Green (biogeochemical) ocean, on a global and regional scale. The spatial and temporal resolution of ocean variables available in the portfolio varies according to the source of data: ocean models, satellite observations, and in situ measurements. In addition, Ocean Monitoring Indicators (OMIs) complement this offer by providing key variables used to track the vital signs of the ocean and changes in line with climate change.

Why is the Ocean Important?

Introduction

The ocean provides about half of the world’s oxygen and helps to regulate our climate and weather. It is an essential and central part of Earth’s system and helps mitigate the effects of climate change by absorbing excess heat and carbon dioxide from human activities.

The ocean also sustains Earth and humanity by supplying services, such as nutrition, transport, medicine, recreation, and renewable energies, as well as supporting livelihoods. It thereby plays a key role in our economy and society and provides a home for a significant proportion of Earth’s biodiversity, supporting a healthy, well-functioning global environment.

You can explore a range of factors that are tied to the ocean in the infographic below. Click on an icon to read more about the diverse services provided by the ocean.

Recreation and Tourism

Marine spaces – including the ocean, coastal areas and beaches, estuaries, wetlands, historic sites, cruising routes, reefs – offer unique opportunities for recreation and tourism that are invaluable to many. 

Marine tourism relies heavily on the properties of these spaces – including water clarity and cleanliness, beach condition, coastal development, accurate weather event forecasting, and ecosystem health - to support activities, such as coral reef diving, recreational fishing, wildlife-watching tours, and local seafood. Tourists and citizens engage with the ocean and its contents to achieve personal fulfilment, cultural connection, and greater physical and mental health, and in turn, support extensive travel and tourism industries.

English

Copernicus
Marine Service

Recreation and Tourism

You are here:

Home

Ocean Explainers

Why is the Ocean Important?

Recreation and Tourism

Marine spaces – including the ocean, coastal areas and beaches, estuaries, wetlands, historic sites, cruising routes, reefs – offer unique opportunities for recreation and tourism that are invaluable to many. 

Marine tourism relies heavily on the properties of these spaces – including water clarity and cleanliness, beach condition, coastal development, accurate weather event forecasting, and ecosystem health - to support activities, such as coral reef diving, recreational fishing, wildlife-watching tours, and local seafood. Tourists and citizens engage with the ocean and its contents to achieve personal fulfilment, cultural connection, and greater physical and mental health, and in turn, support extensive travel and tourism industries.

 

Blue tourism adds value

According to the Blue Economy report 2021, European Union (EU) coastal tourism represents about 45% of the gross added value and about 65% of employment of the whole blue economy sector. Within this industry, marine and coastal areas are the most popular tourism and recreational destinations, representing over one-third of the blue economy.

Tourism drives a huge global industry, covering sectors related not only to travel, but also to food, accommodation, insurance, recreation, souvenirs, equipment (for diving, surfing, sailing, fishing, swimming), and much more. Many marine touristic and recreation destinations are in developing countries, which rely heavily on the revenues derived from these activities. A healthy and sustainably managed marine environment is thus key to supporting local economies and livelihoods relying on tourism and recreation, especially for countries very dependent on these industries.

Monitoring tools and data spur clean-up

To manage the marine environment related to recreation and tourism, states and various stakeholders need to have access to good monitoring tools and data, such as those provided by the Copernicus Marine Service. In this way, water quality can be assessed, and further action can be taken, for example to clean-up single-use plastics on European beaches. 

The 2021 edition of Eurostat’s report entitled, “Sustainable development in the European Union — Monitoring report on progress towards the SDGs in an EU context”, emphasises the need for good monitoring tools and data, such as those provided by the Copernicus Marine Service. While water quality has improved in European bathing waters, thanks to a successful EU water policy, single-use plastics still account for about 50-70% of all marine litter on European beaches, despite being banned throughout the EU.

Explore our web pages and our Blue Book to learn more on how the Copernicus Marine Service supports the coastal tourism and recreation sectors by monitoring the marine ecosystem, water quality, providing information on waves and wind.

Useful links 

EU Commission: EU Blue Economy Observatory Reports 

Eurostat: Sustainable development in the European Union

Ocean Panel: Sustainable Coastal & Marine Tourism

UN Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life below water

The Blue Book: Copernicus for a sustainable ocean

Copernicus Marine Service: Supporting water quality

Copernicus Marine Service: Supporting education, public health & recreation

Copernicus Marine Ocean Explainers: Plastic pollution

English

Copernicus
Marine Service

Recreation and Tourism

You are here:

• Home

• Ocean Explainers

• Why is the Ocean Important?

• Recreation and Tourism

Marine spaces – including the ocean, coastal areas and beaches, estuaries, wetlands, historic sites, cruising routes, reefs – offer unique opportunities for recreation and tourism that are invaluable to many. 

Marine tourism relies heavily on the properties of these spaces – including water clarity and cleanliness, beach condition, coastal development, accurate weather event forecasting, and ecosystem health - to support activities, such as coral reef diving, recreational fishing, wildlife-watching tours, and local seafood. Tourists and citizens engage with the ocean and its contents to achieve personal fulfilment, cultural connection, and greater physical and mental health, and in turn, support extensive travel and tourism industries.

 

Blue tourism adds value

According to the Blue Economy report 2021, European Union (EU) coastal tourism represents about 45% of the gross added value and about 65% of employment of the whole blue economy sector. Within this industry, marine and coastal areas are the most popular tourism and recreational destinations, representing over one-third of the blue economy.

Tourism drives a huge global industry, covering sectors related not only to travel, but also to food, accommodation, insurance, recreation, souvenirs, equipment (for diving, surfing, sailing, fishing, swimming), and much more. Many marine touristic and recreation destinations are in developing countries, which rely heavily on the revenues derived from these activities. A healthy and sustainably managed marine environment is thus key to supporting local economies and livelihoods relying on tourism and recreation, especially for countries very dependent on these industries.

Monitoring tools and data spur clean-up

To manage the marine environment related to recreation and tourism, states and various stakeholders need to have access to good monitoring tools and data, such as those provided by the Copernicus Marine Service. In this way, water quality can be assessed, and further action can be taken, for example to clean-up single-use plastics on European beaches. 

The 2021 edition of Eurostat’s report entitled, “Sustainable development in the European Union — Monitoring report on progress towards the SDGs in an EU context”, emphasises the need for good monitoring tools and data, such as those provided by the Copernicus Marine Service. While water quality has improved in European bathing waters, thanks to a successful EU water policy, single-use plastics still account for about 50-70% of all marine litter on European beaches, despite being banned throughout the EU.

Explore our web pages and our Blue Book to learn more on how the Copernicus Marine Service supports the coastal tourism and recreation sectors by monitoring the marine ecosystem, water quality, providing information on waves and wind.

Useful links 

• EU Commission: EU Blue Economy Observatory Reports 

• Eurostat: Sustainable development in the European Union

• Ocean Panel: Sustainable Coastal & Marine Tourism

• UN Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life below water

• The Blue Book: Copernicus for a sustainable ocean

• Copernicus Marine Service: Supporting water quality

• Copernicus Marine Service: Supporting education, public health & recreation

• Copernicus Marine Ocean Explainers: Plastic pollution

Relevant products and services

• Ocean Monitoring Indicators 

• Use Cases:

• Assessment tool to predict the risk of drowning 

• Harmful algal bloom monitoring

• Coastal water quality monitoring

• Met-Ocean conditions for surfers

• Ocean currents in support to gliders piloting

English

Subscribe

Next 

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

Daniel Gschwind

Chief Executive, Queensland Tourism Industry Council

Sustainability is not an option for tourism, it is core business. The Queensland Tourism Industry Council (QTIC) has 1,000 direct members and about 3,000 affiliate regional members. They include large and small tourism operators, training organisations, universities, consultants, industry suppliers and even local councils. Our members operate in a state with some of Australia’s most iconic natural assets. As a result, advocating for and practicing sustainability has been a priority for decades. Our industry’s commercial future depends on it. As global environmental pressures increase, our industry can help demonstrate that a simultaneously prosperous and sustainable future is possible.

Tourism is defined in various ways, but at its core it is ‘the act and process of spending time away from home’[1]. Or, to put it differently, it is the act of looking at the world from a different perspective. A different perspective is what we need to achieve the ambitious vision of a sustainable coastal and marine sector. The people engaged in tourism, both consumers and providers, are exceptionally well placed to become agents for positive change and to make tourism an effective driver towards the goals embedded in that vision.

By its very nature, tourism activity sits at the intersection of economic, social and environmental spheres, dependent on each and having an impact on all. Although often measured in purely economic or commercial terms, tourism is co-dependent on community, culture, and natural assets, including marine environments and the ocean, to create marketable experiences. Rather than deriving profits through an ‘extractive’ process, commercial tourism has a material interest in socially and environmentally sustainable practices as a way of ‘doing business’.

Visitors, for their part, being ‘away from home’ and benefitting from a different perspective, tend to have a higher awareness of their social and environmental surroundings. As Sinead Mulhern puts it, ‘Moments of being immersed in a totally different culture play a key role in allowing travelers to develop a more open mind.’[2]

Operators’ commercial self-interest and visitors’ potential open-mindedness offer us an opportunity to promote and drive the three key shifts needed to achieve sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050:

A more comprehensive way of valuing our environmental and social assets alongside economic measures.

A better understanding and assignment of responsibilities across private and public sectors and between collective and individual roles.

A greater sense of urgency to achieving change.

On the first shift, perhaps no example is more instructive than the Great Barrier Reef (GBR), which stretches about 2,500 kilometres along the coast of Queensland. Less than 60 years ago the GBR was slated to have ‘lumps of coral’ mined as cheap limestone fertiliser for a local farmer, and most of what is now the UN World Heritage–listed GBR Marine Park had oil exploration leases allocated by the government[3]. Only the timely and determined intervention of a few individuals who perceived the intrinsic value of the GBR ecosystem prevented disaster and allowed the GBR to evolve into Australia’s major natural tourism drawcard, valued at $56 billion, generating more than $6.4 billion in annual revenue and sustaining 64,000 jobs.

The process of understanding and protecting the GBR ecosystem and its relationship with the coastal community and economy continues to this day. Along the journey, the partnership between the tourism industry, researchers, the community and the management agencies has helped develop a deeper appreciation of the reef’s value as a natural resource and an economic asset. In 2004 the QTIC and the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) published the first report on threats global warming poses to both the GBR ecosystem and the coastal economy that depends on it[4]. The report used the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change scenarios to estimate the potential losses in the GBR’s value. In 2018 a report commissioned by QTIC and WWF applied an economic methodology to estimate the investment needed to retain the GBR’s economic and environmental value[5].

Bringing an economic, tourism-use and community perspective to challenges of marine park management has supported significant changes in policy and management. Awareness of how prosperity can be enhanced through environmentally sustainable practices can make communities and industries fierce advocates for change. Without the tourism industry’s outspoken support, it is unlikely the highly successful Representative Areas Program would have been implemented as designed despite compelling scientific evidence[6]. The industry’s support was gained both by strong, evidence-based advocacy from individual ‘champions’ and thought leaders and through patient engagement with relevant stakeholders and community groups. Trust cannot be substituted in the process of building broad-based support for change. Communities and industries that develop a practical, place-based understanding of how the ocean’s environmental services can deliver triple bottom-line benefits will take us closer to our goals.

The second, necessary shift is an extension of the first. Complex, large-scale environmental assets like the ocean, with particular property-right circumstances, pose an enormous challenge in co-ordinating effective actions. On the one hand, local communities need to accommodate diverse economic priorities that may negatively impact on the ocean, including fishing and coastal development. On the other hand, large-scale challenges, like water quality and plastics pollution, require comprehensive, global measures. At both ends of the scale, agencies and individuals need to understand their roles and their responsibilities in bringing about change. We need to encourage individuals and agencies to ask themselves how they fit into the global ecosystem.

Two things can be done to prompt this reflection. Firstly, applied research, combining scientific expertise with practitioners from industry, resource managers and, secondly, First Nations People, can help us better understand the interdependency of actions and the impacts of ocean use and management practices. This motivation prompted the tourism industry to collaborate with scientists and other stakeholders to create the Reef and Rainforest Research Centre in Cairns in 2006, with one objective being creation of ‘a unique engagement framework in which researchers and end users collaboratively define and implement solution-focused science’[7]. Financially supported under subsequent Commonwealth environmental programs, this initiative has delivered numerous research projects with practical applications for industry, the community and resource managers, including the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA). Collaborative research such as this can provide the evidence, accessible to a broader audience, to engage relevant parties and allocate local and global responsibilities. As the UN World Heritage Committee recognised in its 2012 Mission Report on the GBR, the collaborative generation of scientific knowledge can itself drive a greater sense of individual responsibly and actions: ‘Plans and permitting arrangements targeting commercial marine tourism have been systematically implemented and an array of policies, position statements and guidelines has been developed and are communicated in a clear and transparent manner to the public. As a result of this concerted action, and primarily through the establishment of industry partnerships, commercial marine tourism is now planned and managed sustainably, with minimal environmental and social impacts such as crowding’[8].

Active engagement of all parties in research and data gathering, including through ‘citizen science’ programs, has also been very successfully applied in the GBRMPA’s Reef Guardian Schools program, which ‘empowers students and gives them a sense of involvement in the bigger picture and encourages them to make a positive difference’[9]. A differently targeted Reef Guardian Councils program ‘recognises [that] the effective management and protection of the Reef requires a coordinated effort from industries, communities and all levels of government’[10]. A growing number of local governments along the coastline, currently 19 with a combined population of approximately 1 million residents, are undertaking practical projects to ‘protect and conserve the Marine Park through activities that improve the health and resilience of the Reef’[11]. Similarly, the highly successful Eye on the Reef ‘monitoring and assessment program enables anyone who visits the Great Barrier Reef to contribute to its long-term protection by collecting valuable information about reef health, marine animals and incidents that is used to understand the bigger picture and inform how we manage the Reef’[12]. The latter program is specifically aimed at visitors, who gain a much deeper understanding of ecological processes and the driving factors of change. As the UNESCO Mission Report noted, ‘The increased provision of visitor facilities to support sustainable tourism and enhance the appreciation of the property in itself is also an important contributor to the realisation of aesthetic values’[13]. This assessment was confirmed by more recent research, which found that ‘77 per cent of people felt the Great Barrier Reef was part of their identity as Australians and 43 per cent of people listed it as the most inspiring Australian icon, more than five times the level of Uluru, the second most inspiring icon’[14]. An informed ‘line of sight’ to ocean ecologies and any active engagement is the most likely path towards individual behavioural change and will also help frame public opinion and policy direction. The GBR Marine Park would not enjoy its level of protection and government funding if not for the strong public appreciation of its value.

The third key shift must be a far greater sense of urgency that our planet’s ocean is under threat and needs both local and global action. The greater understanding and engagement advocated under the first two shifts will make it easier to demonstrate negative trends resulting from overuse, pollution or global warming. It will also be easier to identify remedial actions and implement change for industry and resource managers. Equally important, a better-informed local community can shape and promote necessary policy change at the local, national and global levels.

Making location-relevant data and research findings accessible to a broader audience in a timely manner is critical to turning communities and industry into active stakeholders. Science communication, through trusted sources, including industry organisations, should never be an afterthought but must be integrated into any applied research from project conception. Knowledge is a more powerful driver for action on sustainability than compulsion. At QTIC we have further found that change is best promoted through ‘peer-to-peer’ delivery. Successful businesses that are ‘ahead of the curve’ are far more likely than external agencies to get the attention of other operators regarding the need for and benefit of new practices. Peer-to-peer support can occur through working groups, committees, networking events and on-line discussion groups. The latter was particularly relevant for our members during the COVID pandemic.

We are all part of the ocean’s ecology and we all depend on its sustainable future. The more we can inform and engage individuals, communities and policymakers, the more likely we will be to achieve the goals articulated by the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy.

—–

[1] Encyclopaedia Britannica, “Tourism,” https://www.britannica.com/topic/tourism.

[2] S. Mulhern, “How Traveling Makes You More Open-Minded,” WorldPackers, 19 June 2019, https://www.worldpackers.com/articles/how-traveling-makes-you-more-open-minded.

[3] I. McCalman, The Reef: A Passionate History (New York: Viking, 2013), 266.

[4] WWF Great Barrier Reef 2050: The Implications of Climate Change for Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, February 2004.

[5] Queensland Farmers Federation, Queensland Tourism Industry Council, WWF, and Association of Marine Park Tourism Operators, Investing in the Great Barrier Reef as Economic Infrastructure, 2016.

[6] L. Fernandes et al., “Establishing Representative No-Take Areas in the Great Barrier Reef: Large-Scale Implementation of Theory on Marine Protected Areas,” Conservation Biology 19, no. 6 (2005): 1733–44; J. Day, L. Fernandes, A. Lewis, G. De’ath, S. Slegers, B. Barnett, B. Kerrigan et al., “The Representative Areas Program for Protecting Biodiversity in the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area,” in Proceedings 9th International Coral Reef Symposium, Bali, Indonesia, 23–27 October 2000.

[7] Reef and Rainforest Research Centre, “Our Services,” https://www.rrrc.org.au/our-services/.

[8] UNESCO Mission Report , Reactive Monitoring Mission to Great Barrier Reef

(Australia), 6th to 14th March 2012, 24.

[9] Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA), “Reef Guardian Schools,” https://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/our-work/our-programs-and-projects/reef-guardians/reef-guardian-schools.

[10] GBRMPA, “Reef Guardian Councils,” https://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/our-partners/reef-guardian-councils.

[11] GBRMPA, “Reef Guardian Councils.”

[12] GBRMPA, “Eye on the Reef,” https://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/our-work/eye-on-the-reef.

[13] UNESCO Mission Report GBR (N154) 2012, 17.

[14] J. Goldberg, N. Marshall, A. Birtles et al., “Climate Change, the Great Barrier Reef and the Response of Australians,” Palgrave Communications 2 (2016): 15046.

Next 

https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/daniel-gschwind-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/

https://oceanpanel.org/searchhttps://oceanpanel.org/perspective/a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/#https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-fluxa-thieneman-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-fluxa-thieneman-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

https://oceanpanel.org/searchhttps://oceanpanel.org/perspective/a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/#https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-fluxa-thieneman-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

Randy Durband

CEO, Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC)

Coastal and marine tourism is enormous in many ways: in its physical range across the planet, in the volume of human interactions, in the diversity of tourism product and service types.

Consider the number of subsectors engaged in the coastal and marine tourism sector: hotels and resorts large and small; boats and ships with marinas and massive ports, often side by side with the far greater freight shipping trade; various attractions, including marine-themed parks, souvenirs, restaurants, guide services, scuba and snorkel, swimming and sunning, and the like. And each of these has its own large and diverse supply chain.

Considering that enormity and diversity, here is the way I categorise the three greatest shifts required for more sustainable forms in 2030 and 2050:

• Ship and boat operations made more climate-friendly both at sea and in port

• Governance and public policy enhancements

• Waste management improvements in coastal regions

The path to more climate-friendly

The transition to net zero or better for leisure tourism cruising and boating with regard to climate and localised pollution involves a number of elements. Most vessels release significant carbon emissions. In other words, there are distinct challenges for ships and boats of all sizes, and in a variety of locales.

Most ships built in the past 15 years have cleaner and more efficient systems that emit less carbon than in the past. More can and should be done, which I’ll comment on below regarding governance and policy.

While in port, the next steps that can have the greatest impact on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from ships need to be taken by public utilities and policymakers to maximise the benefits of recent ship technological (and also waste management) solutions.

Portside electrification is the key here. Consider this: if a large ship remaining in port for hours or days leaves its engines running the entire time, it is emitting localised air pollutants, globally impactful greenhouse gases, noise irritations to the local residents and visitors, and churning water and rapidly changing temperatures that may harm marine life. Conversely, if the ship plugs in to portside electrification, these harmful impacts are reduced or eliminated. Globally, electricity generation is shifting to cleaner forms such as wind, solar, and hydro; whereas ship engines remain quite dependent on GHG-producing fossil fuels. Therefore, a quick shift to portside (aka shoreside) electrification is needed.

The European Union has taken an important step in this regard by mandating portside electrification for ships at all EU-based ports, to be completed by 2030. More ports and nations should set target years to require it.

Coastal hotels, resorts, attractions, land transport providers, restaurants and any other tourism businesses are picking up the pace but all have far to go to reduce carbon emissions. The move to clean-energy buses, vans and rental cars could and should be much faster.

Governance and policy

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) is a special agency of the United Nations. It provides guidance to the shipping industry on sustainability and other policy matters. National governments that sign on to IMO agree to enforce its requirements. That enforcement is strong in some cases, weak in many others. The IMO 2020 scheme requires a reduction in sulphur content in fuels for ships that needs to be enforced with particular vigilance.

The common practice of registering ships under ‘flags of convenience’ enables many cruise lines to register their ships in countries with lax labour and environmental protection laws and regulations in order to minimise operating costs. EU regulations on shipping are vitally important because they are among the most rigorous, and the volume of business in EU waters where they have enforcement powers is significant. Other developed economies rarely see major portions of a ship’s sailing itinerary within their national waters, making enforcement a greater challenge. Less developed countries tend to have lax laws. Therefore, collectively, enforcement of IMO requirements and national requirements are not as strong as is needed to solve the critical environmental issues quickly.

Port authorities have begun to understand the need to consider environmental and community impacts in the issuance of entry permits. In recent years they have begun to coordinate their work with that of the regional or local tourism agencies in their public jurisdictions. More engagement of this sort is needed in more places.

Beaches and other coastal areas suffer from constant rubbish washing ashore. And all too many suffer greatly from a lack of visitor management, causing localised pollution and waste. Only after extreme conditions occurred in recent years were some Southeast Asian beaches closed and good practices put in place (with more or less enforcement mechanisms) to allow nature to regenerate. Much more can be done in this regard on such issues as local policy and enforcement, trade association promotion of good practices, education of all players on the imperatives for improvement, beach clean-up campaigns and reduction of single-use plastic.

The Blue Flag program for beaches and marinas has been growing from its original European base to more regions of the world; this should be encouraged in all coastal areas to benefit from their educational programs and guidance on good practices.

Destination management organisations should immediately set five-year targets for conversion to all or mostly electric vehicle usage by the rental car companies at their destinations. This sort of pre-competitive requirement is fair to all companies because any impact on their operating costs is shared by their competitors.

Waste management

There are several forms of waste: rubbish, sewage, water, leakage and spillage. Much of this is managed of course by public utilities, outside the direct control of the tourism industry and local or regional tourism authorities.

As with design and build developments that reduce previous amounts of carbon emissions, virtually all new ship builds of the past 15 years have included the application of state-of-the-art technologies for onboard waste management. At port, as with portside electrification, ships depend on the port authorities to have in place good systems for waste treatment.

Many other types of tourism businesses also can be transformational by engaging in better forms of waste management in coastal areas. All tourism players can lead the way at coastal destinations by practicing exceptional waste reduction. Hotels, local tour operators, restaurants, shops and other businesses can work collectively through their trade associations and government agencies to improve waste management locally. They can follow the lead of many of their peers by sending their staff on paid days for beach clean-up.

Oil and gas spillage seems not to receive much attention, but there are many popular bays with inadequate fuelling facilities, local regulatory requirements and/or enforcement of pollution control laws and norms. Picture a bay with swimmers, countless small boats, paragliders and the like. In many such bays you’ll not find proper fuelling depots but instead oil or gas drums on the shore with crude approaches to filling the tanks of the vessels. Circulation of the bay’s water is by nature somewhat limited, and a very localised form of pollution develops that is harmful to both wildlife and human visitors.

Final thoughts

Hopeful signs abound, but implementation requires increased commitment from more players in both the public and private sectors.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, most cruise lines retired and dismantled older ships well ahead of previously planned pacing. This is a case of ‘build back better’ occurring by virtue of the dramatic loss of business and the high cost of maintaining idle ships. So we emerge from the pandemic with a generally newer and cleaner fleet of ships.

Sustainable certification has recently been applied to leisure cruising. The organisation I lead, the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC), accredits good certification for destinations, hotels and tour operators. In 2016 Royal Caribbean Cruise lines began offering preferred contracting terms to shore excursion operators that are certified to the GSTC’s rigorous standards. In 2019 MSC Cruises adopted the same formula. Now, MSC Cruises has begun pursuit of sustainable ship certification through the Green Award, a program started in the late 1990s by the Port of Rotterdam for freight ships, and recently began offering its certification award to leisure ships.

‘Destination Stewardship’ principles are increasingly applied by the public and private sectors. We at the GSTC accredit good certification for destinations, an approach that is gaining adherents. We have also worked closely with the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) and Royal Caribbean to conduct objective assessments of many cruise port destinations to our global standard, the GSTC Destination Criteria[1].

Let’s applaud the efforts and plans that CLIA has put in place for collective action, and call on the entire industry to join in these efforts and meet or exceed all IMO and national regulations and guidelines.

 —–

[1] Global Sustainable Tourism Council, “GSTC Destination Criteria,” https://www.gstcouncil.org/for-destinations

https://oceanpanel.org/searchhttps://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/#https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/caroline-tippett-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/caroline-tippett-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

https://oceanpanel.org/searchhttps://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/#https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/caroline-tippett-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

Gloria Làzaro

Programme Officer en Plan Bleu (UNEP/MAP)

Contributors: François Guerquin, Julien Le Tellier, Helena Rey and Lina Tode

 

The Mediterranean is an emblematic region for coastal and marine tourism, with trends and challenges reflective of the global situation. With unique landscapes and ecosystems, as well as a rich biodiversity, it offers a wide-ranging cultural and historical heritage. Its authenticity, well-connected locations, security and mild weather have made it the world’s leading tourist destination[i].

The Mediterranean covers less than 1 percent of the world’s ocean surface but is considered a biodiversity hotspot, hosting 4–18 percent of the world’s marine biodiversity, including 20–30 percent endemic species, the highest rate of endemism in the world[ii]. It could also be considered a tourism hotspot: with more than 400 million international tourist arrivals (ITAs) in 2019, the tourism sector in The Mediterranean region, accounted for up to 15 percent of regional GDP and employment[iii]. Since 1995, the sector has grown by about 75 percent and, according to the UN World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), it was expected—before the pandemic—to reach 626 million ITAs by 2025[iv].

If not well planned, this growth can harm the very assets tourists are attracted to, endangering the economic and social returns for residents and local businesses[v] and threatening its long-term sustainability[vi]. Tourism in the Mediterranean is characterised by densely occupied coastal areas, mainly during the summer season. While tourism has significantly contributed to the region’s economic development, it also has created major negative externalities, impacting the natural, cultural and social resources of countries along its shores. This situation could be exacerbated by global challenges such as environmental degradation, resource depletion, increasing energy demand, population growth and its concentration in coastal areas, and climate change. Mediterranean coastal zones will be more impacted by climate change effects than other areas, and they will be affected even more than previously anticipated, with intensifying extreme events such as heat waves, floods, droughts and water scarcity[vii].

The COVID-19 pandemic has shaken the tourism sector, exposing its gaps and weaknesses, as well as the Mediterranean economies’ high dependence on it. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed our lifestyle and given us the opportunity to rethink our behaviour and choices, heightening awareness of humankind’s impact on the environment and sustainability. The recovery from the pandemic shows new touristic trends[viii]: people now increasingly prioritise longer stays (slow tourism), nature and open spaces, and proximity to home. In 2021, for example, France’s Bouches du Rhône department saw a 9 percent increase in domestic tourists[ix].

Tourism is also an energy-demanding sector, and the current situation imposes urgent changes to ensure the wellbeing of the region and its people through the promotion of renewable energies but also the need to halve emissions over the next decade to reach Net Zero emissions as soon as possible as state buy the Glasgow Declaration[x].

 

We cannot miss this unique opportunity to reinvent the tourism sector with a sustainable transition from the ground up. But how can we achieve sustainable tourism in the Mediterranean region? Three shifts seem absolutely necessary:

First shift: Approach tourism as a cross-cutting sector, considering the whole value chain. Tourism should be at the forefront of the transition towards a sustainable and resilient blue economy in the Mediterranean region. The sector can pave the way towards sustainability and collaborate with other important economic sectors of the Mediterranean countries. The sector needs to address the lack of measures to reduce the pressures affecting marine and coastal areas, based on more sustainable, circular and inclusive business models. Tourism needs to consider adopting sustainable consumption and production strategies and policies of all the interconnected activities in the value chain (accommodation, transport, food and beverage, plastic production, energy efficiency, etc.) through decarbonisation and efficient use of natural resources. Considering new trends mentioned above, the sector must pay more attention to the carrying capacity of destinations and sensitivity of areas such as islands or protected areas.

Second shift: Scale up good practices to increase the socioeconomic and environmental benefits for local communities. Mediterranean tourism needs to evolve from unsustainable standard ‘sea, sun and sand’ business models and mass coastal tourism, as included in all-inclusive packages, towards more value-added products and services[xi], diversifying current tourism products to include more focused on nature, culture, responsible cruises, and MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and events)[xii]. This could be achieved by enhancing differentiation, authenticity, and competitiveness, including finance support to boost net-zero technologies and small and medium-sized enterprises, and by prioritising quality over quantity.

Several initiatives could serve as a basis to implement successful tools or practices that have already been tested in Mediterranean territories and are replicable in other regions. For example, the Interreg MED Sustainable Tourism Community[xiii] offers solutions from 30 thematic projects that, during the last 6 years, have been proposing ways to improve sustainability:               :

• Offer alternatives to mass tourism by foregrounding local and regional resources, including underwater heritage, culinary heritage, ecotourism in protected areas, inland tourism, fishing tourism, cycling tourism and small unknown destinations with well-managed plans to avoid their overexploitation.

• Reduce the impact of tourism activities (water and energy consumption, waste generation, management of tourists flows, carrying capacity of destinations) and implement a circular economy.

• Promote best planning and management practices.

These projects had an impact not only on their pilot sites but also abroad, with the incorporation of initiatives or tools in public policies. For instance, as part of the INCIRCLE project, the Municipality of Rethymno, Greece, implemented a demonstrator to promote electromobility in combination with Renewable Energy Sources, thereby avoiding 12.5 tons of carbon dioxide emissions, equivalent to those produced by 52,000 kilometres of travel in a conventional car. The energy produced is enough for a typical e-car to cover 160,000 kilometres.

Third shift: Establish effective monitoring mechanisms, which means measuring, integrating and analysing data to effectively assess the situation of tourist destinations in real time. This will support decision-makers and stakeholders from various categories (businesses, local authorities, public agencies, civil society organisations, etc.) better identify risks, gaps and opportunities, and adapt policies to the local situation accordingly.

Digitalisation will be crucial in this process. Tourism was one of the first sectors to digitalise business processes on a global scale, making it possible to book online stays and transport. These information and communication technologies have shown their strengths and will accompany the tourism sector by bringing new business opportunities and new ways of travelling (smart visas, borders, security processes and infrastructure, etc.)[xiv] that could also allow monitoring of the sector’s sustainability, if anticipated.

Digitalisation already proved its relevance during the COVID-19 pandemic, with QR codes and monitoring of case contacts. It could also help redistribute visitors’ flows in space and time, reducing the impact on overcrowded destinations, as tested in Valencia, Spain, and Dubrovnik, Croatia[xv].

 

It is crucial to make these three shifts happen, and in that effort all of us have a role to play. Tourism is recovering at vastly different speeds from one Mediterranean country to the next. Regional, transboundary cooperation in the Mediterranean must be improved by involving all stakeholders making use of the national policies, strategies and plans designed for the post-pandemic recovery.

Plan Bleu’s development of guidelines for the sustainability of cruises and recreational boating in the Mediterranean region is a good example of cooperation to increase the resilience of one of the tourism industry’s most prominent segments. These guidelines aim to (a) analyse the impacts of cruises and recreational boating, (b) report to stakeholders on good practices to enable the sustainable development of both subsectors, and (c) help policymakers and decision-makers reflect on ways to legislate and limit pollution from cruises and recreational boating, with clear objectives to be reached in the medium term (2030) and full implementation by 2050[xvi]. For this purpose, Plan Bleu set an inclusive participatory process, gathering a hundred participants, including representatives of the private sector, public authorities, researchers, and non-governmental and international organisations, to draft joint guidelines for the sustainability of cruises and recreational boating[xvii].

Building together a sustainable, resilient, green, digital and inclusive coastal and marine tourism for 2030 will contribute significantly to countries’ pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda and the objectives of the Mediterranean Strategy for Sustainable Development under the framework of the UN Environment Programme Mediterranean Action Plan and the Barcelona Convention[xviii].

If these three shifts are fully implemented, by 2030 tourism in the Mediterranean will have the following characteristics:

• It will be sustainable, paying attention to the entire value chain, with a large offer of products apart from ‘sea, sun and sand’ mass coastal tourism. Distributed throughout the year, it will promote tourism closer to home and prioritise low-emission transport.

• It will have reduced impact and use resources more efficiently. For example, cruise tourism and recreational boating, a huge percentage of Mediterranean tourism with around 70 percent of the world’s mega-yachts sailing in the Mediterranean year-round, will be adapted to minimise current impacts through the implementation of commitments such as the designation of the Mediterranean Sea as an Emission Control Area for Sulphur Oxides (Med SOX ECA) pursuant to MARPOL Annex VI and the EU Green Deal objectives, as well as by scaling up sustainable practices for cruise tourism and recreational boating.

• It will be more resilient, thanks to the engagement of local communities in tourism governance and through the implementation of real-time monitoring through the opportunities offered by the digital transition, adapting the tourism sector to unforeseen circumstances.

The Mediterranean is a wonderful region for us all to live in and enjoy, but it is also at risk of becoming the victim of its success. A fundamental shift is needed, with coordinated efforts at all levels to reinvent the tourism sector as a resilient, inclusive and sustainable activity that takes care of the basis of the Mediterranean’s wealth: its environment.

—–

[i] J. Fosse et al., “The Future of Mediterranean Tourism in a (Post) COVID World,” eco-med briefing, April 2021, https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4616983.

[ii]  United Nations Environment Programme/Mediterranean Action Plan and Plan Bleu (2020). State of the Environment and Development in the Mediterranean. Nairobi. https://planbleu.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/SoED_full-report.pdf

[iii] World Travel & Tourism Council, 2017 data, direct and indirect contribution of tourism to GDP, https://wttc.org/.

[iv] Fosse et al., “The Future of Mediterranean Tourism.”

[v] Interreg Mediterranean Sustainable Tourism, “Policy Factsheet #3: Tourism as a Strategic Driver for Inclusive, Responsible and Sustainable Growth in the Mediterranean Region,” 9 January 2020, https://sustainable-tourism.interreg-med.eu/no-cache/en/news-events/news/detail/actualites/policy-factsheet-3-tourism-as-a-strategic-driver-for-inclusive-responsible-and-sustainable-growth/.

[vi] J. Fosse and J. Le Tellier, Sustainable Tourism in the Mediterranean: State of Play and Strategic Directions, Plan Bleu Cahier 17 (May 2017), https://planbleu.org/en/publications/sustainable-tourism-in-the-mediterranean-state-of-play-and-strategic-directions/.

[vii] W. Cramer, J. Guiot, and K. Marini, eds., Climate and Environmental Change in the Mediterranean Basin: Current Situation and Risks for the Future, First Mediterranean Assessment Report, 2020, Mediterranean Experts on Climate and Environmental Change, 10.5281/zenodo.4768833; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, Sixth Assessment Report, 2022.

[viii] European Travel Commission, Encouraging Sustainable Tourism Practices, September 2021, https://etc-corporate.org/uploads/2021/09/ETC_SUSTAINABLE_TOURISM_HANDBOOK_vs6_FINAL.pdf

[ix]      MyProvence, “Bilan de fréquentation touristique 2021: Bouches du Rhône,” https://www.myprovence.pro/la-source/les-donnees-en-synthese/bilan-de-frequentation-touristique-2021.

[x] https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/programmes/sustainable-tourism/glasgow-declaration

[xi] Interreg Mediterranean Sustainable Tourism, “Tourism as a Strategic Driver for Inclusive, Responsible and Sustainable Growth in the Mediterranean Region,” May 2019, https://sustainable-tourism.interreg-med.eu/fileadmin/user_upload/Sites/Sustainable_Tourism/horizontal_project/BTM_Documents/Policy_Factsheets/BTM_PolicyFactsheets_3_EN.pdf.

[xii] Fosse and Le Tellier, Sustainable Tourism in the Mediterranean.

[xiii] Interreg Mediterranean Sustainable Tourism, home page, https://sustainable-tourism.interreg-med.eu/.

[xiv] World Tourism Organization, “Digital Transformation,” https://www.unwto.org/fr/digital-transformation.

[xv] Interreg Mediterranean Herit-Data project, “The Historical Core of Dubrovnik,” https://www.unwto.org/fr/digital-transformation.

[xvi] Plan Bleu, Guidelines for the Sustainability of Cruises and Recreational Boating in the Mediterranean Region, 13 April 2022, https://planbleu.org/en/publications/guidelines-for-the-sustainability-of-cruising-and-recreational-boating-in-the-mediterranean-region/.

[xvii] Plan Bleu, “Cruising and Recreational Boating in the Mediterranean,” https://planbleu.org/en/page-theme/cruises-and-boating-in-the-mediterranean/.

[xviii] UN Environment Programme Mediterranean Action Plan and Plan Bleu, State of the Environment and Development in the Mediterranean, 21 October 2020, https://www.unep.org/resources/report/state-environment-and-development-mediterranean.

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

Caroline Tippett

Vice President of Ocean Markets and Finance, World Wildlife Fund

https://oceanpanel.org/searchhttps://oceanpanel.org/perspective/caroline-tippett-vision-setting-a-sustainable-coastal-and-marine-tourism-sector-in-2030-and-2050/#https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

Expert Essay

Vision Setting: A Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism Sector in 2030 and 2050

What is sustainable coastal and marine tourism in 2030 and 2050? What are three key shifts needed by 2025 to achieve this ambitious vision?

https://oceanpanel.org/perspective/gloria-lazaro-vision-setting-sustainable-ocean-tourism-in-2030-and-2050/https://oceanpanel.org/opportunity/sustainable-coastal-marine-tourism/

pandemic restrictions are being lifted gradually in most coastal regions, millions of tourists will be swarming to their favourite beach destinations this summer. Tourism remains an effective and familiar way for people to connect with nature. Although a healthy ocean is unequivocally a cornerstone of high-quality traveller experiences, the most significant market-based contributor to finance protected areas and a tool to benefit local communities and businesses, the dominant mass tourism approach does not take nature into account—with devastating consequences for marine habitat and its fauna.

With more than 1.4 billion international travellers travelling the world before the pandemic, according to the UN World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)[1], the potential for tourism as a powerful and transformative force for sustainable development is significant. In 2019, the tourism sector was the third largest for exports, one of the fastest growing, the largest service employer and one of the most critical drivers of economic growth through job and enterprise creation, export revenues and infrastructure development. This trend is forecast to resume when the pandemic recedes.

There is no healthy ocean without sustainable coastal and marine tourism at a scale to meet consumer demand. Well-managed tourism can support conservation while contributing to sustainable development and providing income opportunities and a higher quality of life for coastal communities. We have an opportunity by 2030 to get things right. After all, it’s in the tourism industry’s self-interest; nature is its most important business partner. Hotels, cruise ships, tour operators and the industry’s long and wide supply chain depend on beautiful destinations for their long-term business health. The vision of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for the next decade is to contribute with our partners in conservation towards nature-positive tourism where all supply chain actors converge to create value for people, nature and businesses. This approach has been framed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the industry and standards and principles set by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC).

Since its inception, WWF has partnered with the travel industry. Businesses across the travel industry are increasingly aware of the competing needs in any given seascape, how habitat loss and climate change are intricately related, and the transformational role the travel industry can play in restoring and elevating ocean resilience.

It starts with a shift from a ‘first do no harm’ mentality to making a net contribution to people and the planet. This requires a holistic approach that leverages existing movements to protect places, provides access to financing to support sustainable tourism enterprises and ensures policies are co-created with and ultimately benefit Indigenous Peoples and local communities.

Shifting industry to nature-positive tourism

The first shift that needs to occur will be structural, factoring sustainable tourism into the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People 30×30 ambitions[2]. Area-based conservation interventions need to be integrated, holistic and based on good outcomes for local people, global society and nature. The sovereignty of local communities and Indigenous Peoples over their natural seascapes needs to be codified through co-created conservation plans in areas where tourism, nature and people coexist. Thus, businesses need to work in synergy and team up with communities directly impacted by coastal developments and tourism activities. This will have to include embedding sustainability and resilience principles across the lifecycle of infrastructure projects. This vision also relies heavily on improved tourism management systems, including raising the capacities, education and inclusiveness of travellers, the private sector and local communities.

The second shift is perceptual, moving from outdated mass tourism to sustainable, restorative tourism. Mentalities across the tourism supply chain should also shift to view protecting wildlife as the best partner for ocean tourism. In the first major study of world wildlife tourism, researchers at the University of Oxford’s Wildlife Conservation Research Unit concluded that up to 40 percent of tourism worldwide is wildlife tourism across seascapes and landscapes[3]. Wildlife viewing, including iconic species like whales, sharks, turtles, dolphins and other megafauna, drives billions of dollars for the tourism industry. In this sense, a sustainable blue economy globally and in many areas remains one of the most significant livelihood generators and a robust engine for local economies. Sustainable tourism should improve governance in protected areas and strengthen cooperation between management bodies and local stakeholders for more significant mutual economic and environmental benefits.

The third shift needs to come from finance. Tourism can be big business and is enabled by capital flows from financial markets. In 2019 alone, before the pandemic, tourism accounted for $948 billion in capital investment, or 4.3 percent of total investment worldwide that year[4]. These financial flows need to be aligned to a sustainable blue economy to minimise short-, medium- and long-term risks, such as those stemming from climate change and a degraded environment.

Financiers, including banks and investors, urgently need to adopt and implement the Sustainable Blue Economy Finance Principles and their associated guidance[5]. This guidance has been developed to support key sectors, including the transition to sustainable marine and coastal tourism, to support the work with clients and portfolio companies to shift practices towards nature-positive outcomes. In addition, local tourism businesses and communities protecting natural capital and social cohesion must have equitable and sustainable sources of capital to grow and incentives for long-term natural resource management.

One example of this in Latin America, where the InterAmerican Development Bank launched a challenge in collaboration with the UNWTO to finance sustainable tourism development that introduced innovation for environmental sustainability and employment. Businesses that won financing through the challenge include the Green Fins Global Hub, which aims at supporting small marine tourism enterprises in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic to achieve higher environmental standards. Another business, Experience Nariva in Trinidad and Tobago, aims to stimulate ecotourism in the Narira Swamp, a Ramsar-protected site, to benefit local communities and create incentives for good environmental stewardship.

These three shifts cannot be fulfilled if policies do not keep up with the pressing needs and anticipate future upheavals in nature conservation and the tourism industry. Appropriate policies can enable new and desirable directions, spur innovation and help address challenges and problems.

For example, governments could provide incentives, resources, durability, certainty for investments and other necessary conditions to encourage businesses to engage and invest in nature-positive tourism. Since its first report in 1990, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has been sharing science-based assessments, risks and options to help policymakers understand what must be done[6]. This awareness-raising effort has driven innovative solutions like a solar-powered tour boat in Ecuador’s Galapagos National Park, the result of a collaboration between the park and WWF, or the 2008 U.S. law that provides tax credits for carbon capture, known as 45Q. It has been identified as one factor in helping United Airlines recently commit to becoming net zero by 2050.

Policies also can address issues at scale, across an entire jurisdiction and often multiple jurisdictions, and various sectors, supporting the scope and pace of change. The recommended policies need to be reinforced at the global, national and local levels, and within similar time frames for maximum impact.

Leading the way hand in hand with businesses

As the leading conservation organisation aiming at creating a better future for people and nature, we recognise that we cannot do this alone. WWF engages in our conservation work with communities, governments and companies to create lasting change. That is why WWF has been partnering with some of the world’s leading corporations in the hospitality and tourism sector for over a decade to meet conservation threats, with remarkable response.

One notable case study concerns our work with Royal Caribbean Group to certify its tour operators to the GSTC standard[7]. At WWF’s recommendation, Royal Caribbean Group committed to increasing the sustainability of its tour offerings through the GSTC framework. The company set a target to provide 1,000 tours through operators certified by a GSTC-accredited certification body by 2020, representing about 25–30 percent of its tour portfolio. By December 2020, it had achieved over 2,000 GSTC-certified tours through 33 different tour operators in 29 different countries.

Contributing to this achievement was the thoughtful education of key Royal Caribbean staff and local tour operators on the GSTC standard and certification process and establishing a sustainable procurement policy preferring GSTC-certified tour operators. Royal Caribbean was the first major travel company to adopt preferential purchasing based on GSTC-accredited certification. This has allowed tour operators to proudly help protect the environment while also saving costs. When a shore excursion tour operator is certified, it creates an important multiplier effect, as these operators often provide tours to other cruise lines and travel companies.

WWF additionally piloted three GSTC destination assessments in Honduras and Belize with the German Agency for International Development (GIZ) and Royal Caribbean with the local governments and civil society. Similar sustainable tourism initiatives were carried out in the Philippines together with the company and Donsol. WWF is looking to expand its collaboration with Royal Caribbean in the coming years and build together a broader nature-positive initiative in Belize and other regions. This model has the potential to be replicable with other corporate partners as part of WWF’s nature-positive business strategy.

With leading hotelier Hilton, we also have led transformative freshwater resource initiatives in some of their properties in South Africa during the devastating drought. WWF is exploring collaboration with Hilton to design destination stewardship initiatives to improve seafood sourcing, influence customer behaviour and further area-based restoration efforts.

Takeaway

Nature-positive tourism is not only possible but necessary if we want to meet ocean conservation ambitions by 2030. There is reason to be hopeful, with the growing engagement from governments and the financial and hospitality sectors, but an awful lot of work is still needed to bend the curve of decline in nature and climate change. To maintain the natural capital on which the tourism business model is based, businesses need to act now, before the scenic beaches and marine ecosystems tourists seek are wiped away by unsustainable developments and climate change. There is also strong momentum in the finance community to redirect capital flows towards nature-positive businesses; this should be harnessed to accelerate the transition for the benefit of people, planet and peace.

—–

[1] UNWTO. “International Tourist Arrivals Reach 1.4 Billion Two Years Ahead Of Forecasts”, January 2019. https://www.unwto.org/global/press-release/2019-01-21/international-tourist-arrivals-reach-14-billion-two-years-ahead-forecasts

[2] High Ambition Coalition. https://www.hacfornatureandpeople.org/home

[3] PLOS ONE. “The Customer Isn’t Always Right—Conservation and Animal Welfare Implications of the Increasing Demand for Wildlife Tourism” https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0138939

[4] IISD. “Tourism Recovery and Resilience in Commonwealth Small States: Driving circular economy pathways post-COVID-19”. https://www.iisd.org/articles/tourism-recovery-resilience-commonwealth-small-states-circular-economy

[5] UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, Turning the Tide: How to Finance a Sustainable Ocean Recovery, March 2021, https://www.unepfi.org/publications/turning-the-tide/.

[6] IPCC reports. https://www.ipcc.ch/reports/

[7] GSTC. Royal Caribbean’s 2020 Sustainability Report. https://www.gstcouncil.org/royal-

1. Napisać o maritime and coastal tourism industry - o rosnącym zainteresowaniu różnych form wypoczynku od drugiej połowy XIX w. w Europie. Od kiedy notuje się wzrost inwestycji w infrastrukturę turystyczną wsi rybackich i miast portowych.
2. Napisać o rosnącym zainteresowaniu cruise industry jako atrakcyjnej formie wypoczynku dla każdego średnio zamożnego człowieka o różnych potrzebach zyciowych: singli, poszukujących romansu, miłości, ucieczki od gwaru i zgiełku cywilizacji lądowych, przeżycia przygody, bycia w ciągłym ruchu i doświadczania nowych sytuacji, miejsc i poznawania ludzi, znalezienia oddechu i odprężenia od rodzinnych obowiązków, sposób na aktywne spędzenie rodzinnie czasu i wspólnego budowania wspomnień wartych pamiętania, czy odnalezienie spokoju i harmonii z przyrodą, czasu na przemyślenie czy czasem podsumowanie swojego życia, a czasem ostatnia szansa na przeżycie w swoim życiu czegoś wyjątkowego na co nie miało się czasu - swego rodzaju nagroda w postaci zamieszkania na dłużej (czasem do śmierci) na morzu. W zależności od naszych oczekiwań cruise ship w trakcie journeys stają się statkami przenoszącymi nas w świat  składający się z elementów wyobraźni, wzorów kulturowych, uwarunkowań przyrodniczo-fizycznych, możliwości finansowych i technologicznych. Cruise ship może być "statkiem miłości", The Flying Dutchman, statkiem przygód grupy przyjaciół  niczym Argo pod wodzą Jazona, statkiem badawczym HMS Challenger  - first true oceanographic expedition, statkiem odkrywców rozmaitości kultur i dzikich lądów tj.Santa Maria Krzysztofa Kolumba, statkiem odosobnienia niczym Nautilus podczas powieści dwadziestu tysięcy mil podmorskiej żeglugi czy HMS Great Eastern w powieści "pływające miasto", statkiem wyrażającym bunt HMS Bounty, czas ilozacji na czas pracy twórczej niczym HMS Beagle Karola Darwina, czy chęci obcowania z wielorybami na pokładzie HMS Essex wzorca Pequod z  Herman Melville's Moby Dick czy ostateczne wycofanie jak HMS Titanic. 
3. Rosnące zainteresowanie cruise industry idzie w parze z romantycznym obrazem morza w świadomości społecznej (mental image) i kulturze (maritime mindset). Nic dziwnego że popyt na tego rodzaju usługi rośnie wraz ze społeczną akceptacją takiej formy wypoczynku. Podać statystyki bieżące rosnącego popytu i zatrudnienia.
4. Cruise industry jako część coastal i maritime tourism ma też mniej romantyczną stronę - ten sektor to przykład antropopresji na Global Ocean. Tutaj podać liczne bieżące dane i to jak negatywnie cruise industry oddziałuje na Ocean w wymiarach: green, gray i blue Ocean (to z notatki).
5. Porównanie tych dwóch sposobów akceptacji społecznej na przykładzie stosunku polskiego i greckiego społeczeństwa. Polska i Grecja w kontekście cruise tourism industry wydaje się nie na miejscu gdyż różnica jest zbyt oczywista. Morze Bałtyckie i Morze Śródziemne to zupełnie dwa odrębne światy: drugi to właściwie hot spot koncentrujący uwagę armatorów operatorów ze względu na ogromny ruch turystyczny. Tourism traffic jest tu dużym problemem pełnym kontrowersji: tu napisać o nich i opatrzyć je danymi statystyki. Wymienić postawy i praktyki istotnych interesariuszy.
6. Morze Bałtyckie, a już w szczególności Polskie wybrzeże to kopciuszek wobec Grecji. Uwarunkowania dla rozwoju branży dużych wycieczkowców z artykułu. Władze w Szczecinie nie wykazują zainteresowania tą branżą- potrzeba ogromnych nakładów finansowych na początek. W całej Polsce brakuje terminala do obsługi tych statków. Muszą one cumować jak statki cargo w sąsiedztwie ładowanych masowców. Okolica nie zachęca do zejścia na ląd. W Szczecinie jest bardzo idealna przestrzeń nabrzeży Waĺy Chrobrego i Łasztownia jednak miasto nie jest właścicielem gruntu nabrzeży które ma firma Polsteam oczekującą zysku z dzierżawy od miasta. Gdańsk też ma problemy z głębokością toru wodnego i brakuje reprezentacyjnego miejsca dostępnego. Podobnie Świnoujście. Jedynie Gdynia wydaje się spełniać warunki.
7. Akceptacją społeczną dla cruiser w Polsce - statki cumujące ożywiają miasto, kulturę powitalną, ruch w mieście, kreatywność i sieciowanie lokalnych przedsiębiorców, artystów, przewodników turystycznych, przewoźników, restauratorów, Rzemiosła, kultury wyższej i władz. Sprzeciw - korporacyjność operatorów nastawionych na zysk a nie korzyści dla portu goszczącego i gospodarki lokalnej.
8. W Grecji inaczej patrzy się na to. Inaczej warunkowana jest akceptacja społeczną dla tej branży. Pozytywne i negatywne postawy oparte na badaniach, artykułach i opracowaniach.
9. Czego możemy się z tego porównania nauczyć? Ciepłe kraje jak Grecja to dla tych co widzą w cruise statkach wszystkie praktyki, doświadczenia i wyobrażenia podające się kreacji w narracji gorącego słońca, plaży, wina, palm, romantycznych zachodów i wspaniałej kuchni w starożytnej atmosferze małych uliczek. A Południowy Bałtyk o ile tu jeszcze atrakcyjne są narrację o szlakach śladami wikingów i stolic kultury (Petersburg, Sztokholm i Warnemunde-Berlin i Kopenhaga) to polskie wybrzeże? To raczej wyprawa dla koneserów którzy szukają rejsu na statku oferującego nie zgiełk i gwar miast i czy słonecznych i słonych kąpieli. Problem w tym że nie wiadomo czego mieliby szukać... lub inaczej co można atrakcyjnego im zaoferować? Projekt JOHAN z Południowego Bałtyku wypracował jakąś ścieżkę tematyczną dla miast Południowego Baltyku. Pomysłów na ramy tematyczne zbyt wiele nie było: śladami szlaków kupieckich, miasta hanzeatyckie, miasta socrealizmu, śladami wikingów, szlakiem bursztynowym, szlakiem bitew morskich czy II wojny Światowej, szlakiem kultury wysokiej itp. Alternatywa taka że miasta portowe gdzie call wycieczkowce to tylko bramy do atrakcji: Szczecin-Berlin, Gdynia-Gdansk/Malbork. Czyli nakłady kosztów inwestycji po stronie miast, które dla operatorów nie są ich prawdziwymi destynacjami.
8. Czy jest czego żałować? Przykład Grecji czy Południowego Bałtyku (Warnemunde protesty ekologiczne) pokazuje że cruise sektor niesie wiele zagrożeń i obciążeń dla mieszkańców i środowiska, nie gwarantuje zysku czy bilansu dodatniego. Pokazuje jednak że operowanie sektora cruise statków ma wartość dodaną w postaci rosnącej świadomości ekologicznej i konieczności ograniczania antropopresji dla ochrony Oceanu. To oddziaływanie na świadomość wykracza poza Grecję jako że interesuje się nią cały świat turystyczny. Przykład Polski pokazuje co innego ale również cennego dla Grecji. Na Polsce widac jak wiele jednak cennych impulsów i czynników rozwojowych dostarczają morski sektor wycieczkowy dla miast portowych, tożsamości terytorialnej i kulturowej związanej z morzem i portem. Jak inny jest on od rzecznego sektora wycieczkowego który dla Szczecina właściwie jest niezauważalny choć jest liderem na rynku regionu że względu na połączenie kanałami z Niemiec przez Odrę. Pobudza wyobraźnię i motywuje do współpracy biznesowej, jednak w bardzo ograniczenym zakresie buduje świadomość oddziaływania na środowisko. Problem po prostu nie istnieje. To lekcja dla oby stron aby pokazać że w Grecja i Polska sektor maritime i coastal tourism może dalej się rozwijać i budować korzyści rozwojowe gospodarcze i środowiskowe. Trzeba nauczyć się współdziałać z Oceanem i morskimi społecznościami lokalnymi i operatorami cruise industry i turystami globalnymi wdrażając standardy zeroemisyjnosci i cyrkulacyjnej gospodarki w myśl blue economy.