Spounge city
Macronarratives
condition of port communities
family condition 
container - logistical system - biases for communities of port cities
concept of maritime mindset / attract new talents into port city / mental cultural maritime 
cargo communities / rowing community 
social and cultural ethnographic research - emotions networks with research
comparative research social psychology of emotional networks; 
Book presentation: “Hustle and Bustle – The Vibrant Cultures of Port Cities”
AI driven autonomous, control technological innovation, how people adopt technology, port innovations happens. 

Quay walls. Logistic heritage flag. Last mile logistic. Narraitives of the past using VR, hitoric images and spinning that to the future. New crane for waste disposal, Pris Issue - reconnect the river and heritage. Lille de France. 

Netherlands and Carraibian. Heritage Agency/

Briasil Post COP30

Project led by Carola Hein as part of a collaboration among the LDE UNESCO Chair Water, Ports and Historic Cities, ICOMOS Nederland/ISC  and other institutions interested in water management, culture and heritage.

Water in all its forms is key to human survival and well-being. People have embedded their relation with water in spatial, social and cultural practices for ten thousands of years, creating intricate and ingenious solutions that allow them to survive and thrive in difficult and complex territories, adapting to changes in environmental conditions, or to technological, political, economic, or other changes. Understanding the embedded nature of water in space, society and culture, constructing individual and collective identities, can help activate historic systems and heritage as part of sustainable development. As the UNESCO World Heritage Center emphasized in its 2030 Culture Indicators, culture has important contributions to make to the different Goals and Targets of the 2030 United Nation’s Agenda. Currently, complex water-related urgencies that challenge human life on earth, are often seen as stand-alone occurrences that require individual solutions. However, complex crises like sea-level rise, changing rainwater patterns, and consequent flooding and drought require complex approaches. Within these approaches, technological or economic solutions can engage local conditions, historical, social or cultural contexts and knowledge, and help (re)create structures for valuing water. This requires an advanced engagement with the social and cultural value of water, by creating a new embedded water awareness 2

Hustle and Bustle explores the movements, sites, sounds, and smells unique to port cities, and to the constant activity associated with the shipping and trade, migration, and transport that characterizes the spaces of port cities during day and night. Detailed case studies with a focus on European examples, from multidisciplinary perspectives, provide new approaches to reading port cities. The authors explore perspectives from planning to understand these unique conditions of port cities and their spatial, social and cultural conditions, and to inform new policies, plans, designs that acknowledge both the specific conditions of transshipment and associated nuisances of sound and smell, and of air and water pollution.

Contributors are: Vincent Baptist, Robert Bartłomiejski, Tianchen Dai, Carola Hein, Sławomir Iwasiów, Karolina Izdebska, Maciej Kowalewski, Urszula Kozłowska, Paul van de Laar, Beatrice Moretti, Nick Osbaldiston, Manuel Pacheco Coelho, Ewa Rewers, Dirk Schubert, Christoph Strupp, and Enrico Tommarchi.

