- bombing 
- tower cars 
- ship refugee europe
- SS Rotterdam hotel old cruise
- Tunnel under Mosa River 
- Rotterdam used to be called the gateway to the world;
- I was awed by the size of the River Maas/Meuse – big ships could actually pass through!
- gdzie nie szukać morza jak most part of the Dutch city lies below sea level.
- the first fossils of the Cretaceous sea reptile Mosasaur was found by the said river in 1780?
- the city, also, has the highest percentage of foreign immigrants
- As of 2015, Suriname, Turkey and Morocco occupy the top three spots for the most number of immigrants in Rotterdam, followed by the Dutch Carribean, Cape Verde, Indonesia, Germany, Serbia, Poland and China. In fact, the current mayor is a Moroccan Muslim. To be honest, I think it’s nice that foreign immigrants are given chances to better and improve their lives in Rotterdam. The Dutch are indeed one of the friendliest in the world, i.m.o.!
- Note that the Dutch renaissance humanist, Catholic priest, social critic, teacher and theologian Desiderius Erasmus (1466-1536) was born in Rotterdam. (Or in Gouda, as another historian suggests). And because of that, the city’s major university, the Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) was named after him. A bridge was also built to honor the old man, the Erasmusbrug, a cable-stayed and bascule bridge.
- Another thing I was impressed with was the Maastunnel! Seriously, why not build a tunnel below a huge river? The Maastunnel is like a miniature version of the Scandinavian Øresund Bridge, also submerged underwater. Built between 1937-1942, the Maastunnel used the sunken tube method. What made it special is that it used rectangular tunnels instead of the regular cylindrical ones, making it the world’s first rectangular shaped underwater tunnel! And because it was built during the height of the Nazi regime, the Dutch held an unofficial opening ceremony in secret. (Read more here: Maastunnel, or here: Maastunnel )
- na górze: tunel jako resistance to Nazi symbol - opened in secret;
- Are you ready to walk 1070 meters underwater?

There’s much to admire about the Netherlands and the Dutch. And there’s a whole lot more than just the pretty windmills and colorful flower beds! Up next, a tour to a mid-century cruise ship turned easy and casual hotel. Cheers! 

- The historic tunnel complex has separate tunnels for motor traffic, for cycling and for walking. Together they allow people to cross the river Nieuwe Maas (New Meuse). Much has happened since that visit. The Maastunnel became a national monument in 2012 and its 75-year anniversary was celebrated in 2017. That was also the year that a three year renovation started. The tunnel has been reopened last October and it is exceptionally beautiful again. Time for another visit to Rotterdam’s pride!

- . Under the river the tunnel tubes for motor traffic are parallel to the cycling tunnel but you cannot see or notice that. The level for walking, directly under the cycling tunnel is even lower than the floors or the car tubes. The lowest point of the tunnel is about 20 metres under sea-level. Picture Rotterdams Archief

- Mid 2017, the big renovation started that would take until October 2020. First, the car tunnels were temporarily closed. All the concrete floors were removed, because the concrete suffered from corrosion and degradation due to heavy use and age. All the tiles were also carefully removed from the walls and cleaned. Some could be reused but most of the tiles had to be replaced. The new tiles look exactly like the originals. I took two years, until 2019, before the car tunnels could be reopened. Then the tube with the pedestrian and bicycle tunnels on a separate level got the almost exact same treatment. When you compare the before and after pictures of the cycling tunnel it is hard to imagine that every single tile on the walls was taken out and replaced in the renovation. It took 7 months, from late November 2019 to early July 2020, to restore the cycling tunnel. The tunnel was completely closed for cycling and walking during the restoration. A temporary ferry took people to the other side. While the pedestrian tunnel was reconstructed the cycling tunnel was open again. Bicycles were temporarily available for pedestrians to cross the river in the cycling tunnel. Walking in the cycling tunnel was prohibited! A rickshaw was available for people who could not cycle themselves. The reopening of the pedestrian tunnel marked the end of the entire tunnel restoration project. The final reopening could not be a large celebration due to the Covid-19 pandemic. To mark the occasion the Rotterdam alderman for finances, the port and large projects simply walked through the tunnel, alone, on 17 October 2020. The tunnel is again bright and clean. All the lighting was replaced by energy efficient LED lights, but the lights were fit in the original light fixtures. The colour of the modern lights was carefully chosen to match the colour of the original light-bulbs to recreate the 1940s atmosphere.

- The almost 80-year-old and partly wooden escalators were completely restored. The wooden steps were chosen -all those years ago- because bicycle wheels would have a better grip on the wooden surface. The dimensions of the escalators have a direct relation with the size of a classic Dutch bicycle. The escalators were specifically designed to be easily used with a bicycle. As an integral part of the national monument the escalators could not simply be replaced. Engineers tried to save as many of the original elements as possible. The main axles had to be replaced, but many of the steel cogwheels could be restored. All the elements that are visible to the public, such as the wooden steps and the hand railings, could also be saved. This means the escalators look the same as before, but they are fit to be used for another 75 years.

- 
Rotterdam will commemorate the bombing of the city 78 years ago on Monday. Some 850 people died and 80,000 people were left homeless. Between 13:29 and 13:39, church bells within the fire boundary will ring for ten minutes at a time to commemorate the duration of the bombing.

The commemoration will take place at various locations. First, Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb laid a wreath at 10:00 at the monument on Statenweg, opposite the house at number 147. In that house, Rotterdam was handed the German ultimatum on 14 May 1940, stating that the city had to surrender to the Germans.

- 
Rotterdam will commemorate the bombing of the city 78 years ago on Monday. Some 850 people died and 80,000 people were left homeless. Between 13:29 and 13:39, church bells within the fire boundary will ring for ten minutes at a time to commemorate the duration of the bombing.

The commemoration will take place at various locations. First, Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb laid a wreath at 10:00 at the monument on Statenweg, opposite the house at number 147. In that house, Rotterdam was handed the German ultimatum on 14 May 1940, stating that the city had to surrender to the Germans.

- 
Rotterdam will commemorate the bombing of the city 78 years ago on Monday. Some 850 people died and 80,000 people were left homeless. Between 13:29 and 13:39, church bells within the fire boundary will ring for ten minutes at a time to commemorate the duration of the bombing.

The commemoration will take place at various locations. First, Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb laid a wreath at 10:00 at the monument on Statenweg, opposite the house at number 147. In that house, Rotterdam was handed the German ultimatum on 14 May 1940, stating that the city had to surrender to the Germans.

Rotterdam will commemorate the bombing of the city 78 years ago on Monday. Some 850 people died and 80,000 people were left homeless. Between 13:29 and 13:39, church bells within the fire boundary will ring for ten minutes at a time to commemorate the duration of the bombing.

The commemoration will take place at various locations. First, Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb laid a wreath at 10:00 at the monument on Statenweg, opposite the house at number 147. In that house, Rotterdam was handed the German ultimatum on 14 May 1940, stating that the city had to surrender to the Germans.

- 

Welcome

News

Sport

Local

Look

Listen

Weather

Traffic

news

75th anniversary commemoration of the forgotten bombing of Delfshaven

March 29, 2018, 5:59 PM•2 minutes reading time

The original article was created in Dutch (NL) by our editorial staff. This article is automatically translated by an algorithm and might contain errors due to this.

 

04:18

04:43

 

Udostępnij

Odtwórz

(Spacja)

Wycisz

(m)

00:00

Przesyłaj

Ustawienia

Pełny ekran

(f)

© Rotterdam City Archives

On Saturday 31 March it will be exactly 75 years ago: the forgotten bombing of Delfshaven. American bombers destroyed a large part of the district. 326 people died and hundreds were injured.

The bombs were intended for the port of Rotterdam. The Allies wanted to bomb shipbuilding installations in Rotterdam-West because they were in German hands. One of the targets was the Wilton-Fijenoord shipyard in Schiedam, where torpedoes for U-boats were made.

But things turned out differently. The bombs fell in Rotterdam-West. Kees Groenenboom, then 16 years old, lived on the Mathenesserweg. "I immediately went outside to see what had happened. There was a huge cloud of dust coming from the Marconiplein. I saw a German marine covered in blood. There was panic everywhere."

He helped a young woman with a baby out of her house and helped people get their belongings out of their homes. "It wasn't until the next day that it became clear how immense the damage was."

"As I walked past the rubble, I saw some men stop digging and take off their caps. They had found more people who had not survived. That is still etched in my mind."

Wim Bruning also lived in Delfshaven in 1943, on the Willem Beukelszstraat. "From our living room I saw the bombs fall. A house in which a family with nine children lived was wiped out in one fell swoop."

In 1993, 50 years after the bombing, Ruud Lubbers unveiled a monument in Park 1943, near the Grote Visserijstraat. The commemoration will also take place there on Saturday. The ceremony starts at 13:15 and mayor Aboutaleb will also be present.

Welcome

News

Sport

Local

Look

Listen

Weather

Traffic

news

The day Rotterdam was kicked in the soul

May 20, 2015, 4:06 PM•7 minutes reading time

The original article was created in Dutch (NL) by our editorial staff. This article is automatically translated by an algorithm and might contain errors due to this.

00:28

02:54

03:47

01:10

00:58

02:02

55:25

Destroyed_Rotterdam,_Cheese_Market

ROTTERDAM - 'I hope you fall to your death', 'It will destroy you if you hear it again' and 'Van Gogh boy, you don't need this, do you?'

It is August 1993 and the telephone of Radio Rijnmond on the Mathenesserlaan in Rotterdam explodes. Theo van Gogh has just made a provocative statement in a phone-in program: 'The best thing that ever happened to Rotterdam was the bombing in 1940'.

The callers are dismayed. A wave of emotion flies into the ether. 'Mr. Van Gogh, you are a filthy scoundrel.'

The Amsterdam presenter has been invited by Radio Rijnmond to present Vakantiepost for an hour. The regular figurehead of the hour between 18:00 and 19:00, Erik Post, has a day off and as long as he is away, famous Dutch people will take their place in his chair every day.

Van Gogh has brought along singer Frederique Spigt, a friend of his, for the occasion. She tries to calm the heated emotions now and then. But that doesn't help much. The callers are often not the youngest anymore, have sometimes experienced the misery of 14 May 1940 themselves and feel hurt.

And so for an hour the focus is more on Van Gogh's provocative behaviour than on the question of whether the bombing of Rotterdam actually produced any good.

In considerably calmer waters, Rijnmond.nl presents the proposition again. This time to the director of Museum Rotterdam: city historian Paul van de Laar. ''Theo van Gogh could actually do nothing but bring things to the cutting edge. These reactions are no more than logical'', he says.

Van Gogh stated that the bombing allowed Rotterdam to seize opportunities that would otherwise never have occurred. How do you see that?

I understand that Van Gogh is mainly talking about the opportunities for the city and not about the fatalities, wounded and other personal misery. Yet you can never say that it was a blessing for Rotterdam. With the bombing you take the soul out of the city. Everything that has grown organically in the city is undone in one go. A historical city center, that had developed since the Middle Ages, has been wiped out.

You say the soul is gone from the city. How long will it take to rebuild it?

We are now 75 years further and Rotterdam has recovered nicely. But it will take at least another 25 years before the city is back to full strength. You can see that the city center is starting to take shape again, that people are proud of it, but we are far from there yet. 

. The theoretical separation that Van Gogh wanted to make simply does not exist.

If we now make the rational separation, new opportunities for Rotterdam. What did the bombing bring to the city?

The municipality of Rotterdam has actually been busy modernizing the city since the beginning of the 20th century. A number of major interventions that they had already planned for the city center would have gone ahead anyway. These were far-reaching interventions. Only the scale on which, would of course be much smaller with a center that is still intact. You would have had much more of a balance between old and new, but many adjustments had already been planned to allow traffic to flow better. The old would never be completely erased, but the plans for a modern center were definitely there.

So Rotterdam was already working on urban renewal before the bombing?

That's right. I have a city plan from 1911. If that were to be implemented, a large part of the canals at that time, such as the Veste, the Blaak and the Coolsingel, would be filled in for the benefit of traffic. The Haagse Veer is also being closed in this plan. In 1911, they also wanted to demolish the Schielandhuis for mobility.

The Schielandhuis, which we are very happy to still have.

Yes, that's right, only the difference then was that it could be discussed. After the bombing, there was no longer a building to discuss. The plans that the municipality already had before the bombing were filled in differently after the destruction of the city center, but with the ideas about how a modern city should look.

Has Rotterdam been progressive in this regard?

I dare to assume that a decision to build a completely new city and not to opt for the restoration of the old city in Utrecht and Amsterdam would never have been taken. Rotterdam was more progressive. It had to be. Building a city from a blank sheet is an enormous task. At the time, it was viewed very functionally, which resulted in the fact that the city still has not regained its soul. That is a task that, as I said earlier, will take 100 years.

Radio Rijnmond on the Mathenesserlaan in Rotterdam explodes. Theo van Gogh has just made a provocative statement in a phone-in program: 'The best thing that ever happened to Rotterdam was the bombing in 1940'.

It is August 1993 and the telephone of Radio Rijnmond on the Mathenesserlaan in Rotterdam explodes. Theo van Gogh has just made a provocative statement in a phone-in program: 'The best thing that ever happened to Rotterdam was the bombing in 1940'.

The callers are dismayed. A wave of emotion flies into the ether. 'Mr. Van Gogh, you are a filthy scoundrel.'

Welcome

News

Sport

Local

Look

Listen

Weather

Traffic

FORGOTTEN STORIES

Almost drowning in the whitewater course and sex in the hot tub: your special memories of Tropicana

August 7, 2023, 7:29 PM•9 minutes reading time

The original article was created in Dutch (NL) by our editorial staff. This article is automatically translated by an algorithm and might contain errors due to this.

The whitewater course at Tropicana.© Rotterdam City Archives

There has been a massive response to a call from Rijnmond to share memories of the Rotterdam swimming paradise Tropicana. One came home fur and blue because of the high-speed whitewater course. The other remembers annoying pimple heads that were mostly chasing the girls. And yet another found the love of his life.

A high-speed whitewater course, a wave pool, a ninety-meter slide, an indoor and outdoor area, subtropical plants and a sun cave. The Rotterdam swimming pool Tropicana was not called 'swimming paradise' for nothing. The striking glass-roofed building on Maasboulevard attracted millions of visitors between 1988 and 2010.

The latter is true, after the test swimming the speed whitewater course was adjusted, as can be read in various newspapers that wrote about the opening of Tropicana in July 1988. There will also be signs with the warning 'only for experienced swimmers'.

Many people let us know that the end of the whitewater course was an exciting moment. "You were sucked down and barely came up". And: "Almost drowned at the end of the whitewater course" we read a lot in the responses to our call. Yet most of these people write that they also loved whitewater course.

And Petra Sebel mentions: "Especially the annoying gappies at the bottom of the slides, which tried to group you everywhere." Conny Vermeulen also saw this: "It was a beautiful swimming pool that unfortunately got a bad image because of groups of guests who harassed the girls."

Blue City has owned the building since 2015 and has more than 50 circular entrepreneurs. Events are now held in the old wave pool.

https://www.rijnmond.nl/nieuws/1701957/bijna-verzuipen-in-de-wildwaterbaan-en-seks-in-het-bubbelbad-jullie-bijzondere-herinneringen-aan-tropicana

We believe that access to water is a fundamental human right. City Shower ® plays a role in the implementation of the right to water for city dwellers, travellers and people who consciously choose to shower sustainably in the city. With your help, we want to help more than 35,000 people achieve this.

https://www.citylab010.nl/initiatieven/city-shower-duurzaam-douchen-in-de-sta

https://zielona.interia.pl/przyroda/zwierzeta/news-monstrum-w-sieci-rybakow-wyglada-jak-z-kosmosu-kilka-metrow,nId,20115197

https://g.pl/news/7,188150,31412411,nad-baltykiem-zaroilo-sie-od-morskich-stworzen-korzystaja-z.html

https://www.chip.pl/2024/10/oppo-find-x8-premiera-specyfikacja-ceny

https://www.gospodarkamorska.pl/statek-zaladowany-wielkimi-suwnicami-porzucony-wpadl-na-skaly-81438

https://www.trojmiasto.pl/wiadomosci/Tak-zmienialo-sie-sopockie-molo-na-przestrzeni-lat-n195356.html

https://www.rmf24.pl/regiony/trojmiasto/news-ostania-posluga-na-morzu-w-dawnych-czasach-smiertelnosc-w-ty,nId,7848178

https://polska-morska.pl/2024/12/21/udany-sezon-wycieczkowcow-zakonczony-gdansk-przyciaga-przez-caly-rok/?amp=1

https://www.gospodarkamorska.pl/zegluga-na-fali-i-pod-wiatr-sztormowy-2024-r-82469

https://24kurier.pl/aktualnosci/gospodarka/zyczenia-przy-marynarskiej-choince/

https://www.trojmiasto.pl/historia/Smierdzacy-wieloryb-atrakcja-Trojmiasta-n197496.html

https://architektura.muratorplus.pl/realizacje/sluishuis-samowystarczalny-blok-na-wodzie-ktory-redefiniuje-mieszkalnictwo-w-niderlandach-aa-Kcmg-DdZk-Yjcx.html

Nieczęsto otrzymujesz wiadomości e-mail z adresu info@portcityfutures.nl. Dowiedz się, dlaczego jest to ważne

UWAGA! Nadawca tej wiadomości jest spoza Twojej organizacji. Zachowaj szczególną ostrożność. Nie klikaj linków, ani nie otwieraj załączników, chyba że rozpoznajesz nadawcę i upewniłeś się, że zawartość jest bezpieczna.

Webversion   Unsubscribe

   

 

 

Invitation: PhD Defense Maurice Jansen

 

Thursday January 16th 2025 - 13:00 Sharp (Amsterdam Time).

 

Location: Senate Hall / Senaatszaal at Erasmus University, Woudestein campus. Afterwards there will be a reception at the Cum Laude hall, in the same building.

Ports as a force for positive change? 

Ports, port cities and their governing bodies are faced with this question of how to reconcile the conflicting objectives of growing the port for economic prosperity while at the same time meeting environment and societal objectives. By proponents, ports, port cities and their governing bodies are often attributed a pivotal position being on the arteries of world trade, supplying societies with energy, commodities and consumer goods. However, the public opinion on the value of ports and port development to society is ambiguous, and opponent groups are demanding a faster transition to clean, zero emission and liveable port cities. In a society with increasing tensions, both on a macro-level (geopolitical), as well as on a micro-level (companies struggling to comply with ever more stringent regulations to meet carbon emission targets), there is a need for a common ground, common approaches to tackle the painstaking issues of today’s society. Port governing bodies - also known as port authorities - being in the middle of macro-developments and micro-management, are assigned multiple roles to bridge the gap.

 

The PhD seeks answer to the question how ports – and their governing bodies in both port and city – can become a force for positive change, rather than getting stuck in a battlefield of conflicts.

 

Promotors:

Prof. Dr. Rob van Tulder (EUR/RSM),
Prof.dr. ir. Carola Hein (TU Delft / LDE)

     

www.portcityfutures.nl

info@portcityfutures.nl