W NotebookLM "SCISPACE...: znajdują się opracowania częściowe w dokumentach, wersje finalne, pliki robocze i pełne przeglądy literatury przedmiotu do artykułu naukowego. Wśród 80 plików znajdują się dwa pliki z tą samą treścią (w dwóch formatach: docx i PDF) - wybierz jeden, który pozwoli Ci uzyskać najlepszą jakość udzielanych odpowiedzi. 



1. Założenia artykułu są w abstrakcie: "Abstract ESA Ioannis Robert Tallinn 29_01_2026.docx".

2. Wersja bazowa artykułu, którą należy uzupełnić i zastosować w niej "NotebookLM "SCISPACE...": Blue Economy Maritime Sociology 12_02 18_08.docx.

3. Add relevant content in lacking chapters in "Blue Economy Maritime Sociology 12_02 18_08.docx": "2.1 Maritime Sociology", 

4. Improve and extend for policy relevance and theoretical strong fundamentals taken from "NotebookLM "SCISPACE...". 

5. The project of SciSpace AI with outputs in "NotebookLM "SCISPACE..." is on my SciSpace account under open link: https://scispace.com/share/48b96b10-29fd-4221-a10a-72eb80cbe4a7 . Make use of it for best reasoning, logic argumentation, scientific accuracy and up to date insights where classic maritime sociology and contemporary theories in broad oceanic turn have a strong evidence-based or high-potential to overcome biases, accelerate growth, ... of sustainable blue economy in general and in all blue economy sectors in asoects taken from "NotebookLM "SCISPACE..." and "https://scispace.com/share/48b96b10-29fd-4221-a10a-72eb80cbe4a7". 



Using the EU’s institutionalised Sustainable Blue Economy framework we aim to explain how a maritime-sociological lenses helps explain recurrent tensions around distributive justice, participation, and social sustainability in fisheries, ports, shipping, tourism, and offshore energy and more defined in SciSpace and Notebook. We propose “Blue Sociology” as a complementary (not competitive) renewal: extending maritime sociology beyond “people of the sea” toward an integrated sociology of sea societies suited to current socio-ecological change.



Files with first letters in label "Sustainable ... " are the mandatory reference and guidelines to upgrade and elaborate on the argument with specifics and refer to the details of the theory of marinisation (be precise always in Janiszewski: theory of marinisation), distinguish between ‘marine’, “maritime” and ‘ocean’ sociology; "people of the sea" social category, maritime local communities, human factor, marine factor, 

